cs240mytest
This is a repository for my cs240 class code assignment and project.
Do
not
copy and paste, TAs could catch a copied code easily
If you find this repository helpful, please watch, star, fork or leave a
comment. I would like to make it better.
Leave me a comment,
wli100@binghamton.edu
TOPICS FOR EXAM 1 INCLUDE (but may not be limited to!) THE FOLLOWING:
C++ PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT
understand what kind of code is in .o, .h, .cpp files
understand what make and g++ do (in terms of their input
and output files
- understand the purpose of using a makefile
- understand what is meant by "linking" and "compiling"
- know what a unix shell (terminal) is
- know basically what tar and gzip do
- understand "what goes where" in terms of class definitions,
implementations, compiling statements, etc., and C++ programs
that use classes, objects, and separate compilation
PROCEDURES (FUNCTIONS)
- know what a function signature is, and the difference between
a function signature and a function implementation
- understand the implications of the different parameter passing
styles (by value, by reference, by constant reference)
- know the syntax for specifying these styles in C++
STREAMS
- know what is meant by a "stream" in C++
- know the difference between File streams and I/O streams (cin and cout)
- Be able to use and understant the extraction (>>) and insertion (<<)
operators for getting base types into and out of streams
know what a C++ string class is (but don't worry about the details
of exactly how it is used)
TYPES and OPERATORS
understand what is meant by "Abstract Data Type"
know what "encapsulation" and "abstraction" mean, in terms of
C++ types and classes, and know the difference between the
"definition" of a type, and its "implementation"
know what an operator is, and what the following C++ operators
do on built in types: +, -, *, /, <, >, <=, ==, !=, >=
know what typedef and enum do (but don't worry too much about these)
POINTERS and DYNAMICALLY ALLOCATED MEMORY
know the difference between a pointer and a variable with
associated storage (in memory)
know how to use new and delete to dynamically allocate and return memory
understand the relationship between pointers and addresses, and how
to do "pointer arithmetic" to change what a pointer points to
understand how to create arrays and access array elements, both
dynamically and statically
C++ CLASSES and OBJECTS
know the difference between classes and objects
know what a class definition looks like, and what the various parts
are (class name, member functions, data members, public and private
areas, constructors, destructor, accessor functions, etc.)
know the difference between the different kinds of constructors
(default, value, and copy), and when they are called
know when the destructor is called and when it is important to implement
it yourself vs. letting the compiler generate it
understand what is meant by operator overloading... know how to do it
in C++ (the syntax for an overloaded operator)
know what a "friend" function is, where it goes in code, what makes
it a friend function (as opposed to just a regular function or a
member function of a class), and how (syntax) and why you might want
to use it
understand why the extraction and insertion operators cannot be overloaded
for a class, and why they therefore need to be implemented as friend
functions (but don't worry about memorizing the exact syntax for doing
this)
MEMORY
know the difference between heap, stack, and static memory
understand where variables will reside (i.e. in which type of memory)
when they're declared in different ways (as procedure parameters, local
variables, global variable, dynamically allocated variables, data members
of a class, etc.)
understand what a "memory leak" is, and how to identify it in a program
I might give you, and how to fix/avoid it
know the difference between a shallow copy and a deep copy.  Which one
can the compiler do "automatically" and which one do you have to write
on your own?
understand the concept of the "lifetime" of a variable, including
parameters, local variables in functions, and global variables.
CONTAINERS and LISTS (the below list assumes we get to all this on 9/25 and 9/27...
bottom few items may be omitted... check back here)
understand what is meant by a container, and how one can be organized
in different ways
know how to implement a "list" class with static arrays, dynamic arrays,
and linked lists.  Understand the implications of doing it in these
various ways.
be able to "read" linked list code, including Nodes, next pointers,
and the * and -> operators
know that every combination of variables with *'s and ->'s around it
refers to a value, at some address, that has a type... be able to figure
out which value and address is referred to by combinations of these
operators
be able to write simple linked list insert, remove, and traversal code
know what a null pointer is, and what the problem with dereferencing
a bad pointer is