Introduction to Data Structures (Com S 228)
This page gives access to information about
an old course offerings of ``Introduction to Data Structures,''
as taught (in Spring 1995) by
Gary T. Leavens
for the
Department of Computer Science
at
Iowa State University
.
Information is available under the following headings.
Old Overview
Old Course Description
Old Administrative Information
Old Prerequisites
Old Objectives
Old Textbooks
Old Syllabus
Also available are the following.
Fabric-painted T-shirts I used in this course
.
Old homeworks
.
Old examples directory
,
old include directory
,
and
old library skeleton
.
Old exams
(in postscript form)
Detailed information about the old course
Outlines for the old lecture meetings
(organized in files by units; see the file
Outline-units.txt
for the order of the units).
Old lecture notes
.
Detailed (but now old) information about the operating system and using it to run C++
Overview
Computer Science 228 is an introduction to data structures,
with emphasis on data abstraction and information hiding.
(For the planning of Iowa State's introductory sequence,
see Albert L. Baker, David Fernandez-Baca, and Gary T. Leavens
``Course Specifications for New Introductory Courses:
Computer Science 228X and 228X,''
Department of Computer Science, Iowa State University,
TR #92-09
, April 1992.)
The following information reflects the Spring 1995 offering.
Previous and subsequent offerings were taught by
Albert L. Baker
.
Course Description
This class is designed to give you essential programming tools and knowledge.
You will learn how to model data in a computer,
how to specify and use standard ADTs, and how to implement such ADTs with
standard data structures.
You will learn how efficient or expensive various combinations of data
structures and algorithms are.  Along the way, you will develop
skills in imperative programming.
You will learn some of design principles and ideas for managing small
(up to 500 line) programs.  Finally we hope to share our sense of the
satisfaction that comes from crafting an elegant, correct and efficient
solution to a programming problem.
The ISU catalog description of the course is as follows:
An object-oriented approach to data structures and algorithms
using [the] C++ language.  Object-oriented programming.
Program correctness.  Stacks, queues, trees, searching, sorting,
analysis of algorithms, graphs, and file processing.
Emphasis on writing and running programs.
This course is designed for majors.  (4 credits).
Object-oriented programming involves the use of abstract data types
(C++ classes are an implementation technique for ADTs),
message passing (the C++ term is virtual function calls),
and inheritance (the C++ term is class derivation).
Technically, this class will not use object-oriented programming,
but instead will use mainly object-based programming;
this means using ADTs, but not message passing or inheritance.
Sorry, but the catalog description is inaccurate.
A data structure is a representation (in a computer) for a collection of
related information.  Examples from Scheme are lists and vectors.
A data structure can be used to implement an ADT, which can be thought of
as a useful interface to several related data structures.
The main ones ADTs discussed in the course are listed in the
catalog description: stacks, queues, trees.  (We will not cover graphs.)
(The distinction between an ADT and a data structure is that a particular
data structure implies particular space and time resource usage,
whereas such details are usually suppressed in the specification of an ADT.)
An algorithm is a method for performing some computational task.
For example, a Scheme procedure embodies an algorithm,
provided it always terminates when called.
Many algorithms, such as varieties of searching and sorting algorithms,
work with specific ADTs, and thus are best studied together
with them and the data structures that implement the corresponding ADTs.
A program is correct when its possible execution sequences are a subset
of those given by its specification.  It is thus impossible to discuss
program correctness without having a specification for the program.
Informal specifications will be discussed in the course,
as will informal techniques for developing correct programs.
Analysis of algorithms means deriving some measure or measures of the
resource usage of a program.  A computer scientist would probably phrase
it as ``estimating the efficiency of an algorithm.''  The efficiency of
an algorithm is often expressed using asymptotic notation
(e.g., heap-sort is an O(n log n) time algorithm).
Graphs will not be discussed in this offering of 228.
File processing will only be a minor part of the course.
To clarify a common misconception---this is not a course about C++.
We will use C++, and you will learn about C++, but C++ is not the focus
of the course.  The focus is on data structures, and C++ is a good vehicle
for that.
Administrative Information
Com S 228, ``Introduction to Programming,'' is usually taken by freshman
and sophomores.
The class has a ``lecture'' that meets 4 times a week, for 50 minutes a time.
It also has a discussion section that meets once a week (for 50 minutes) with a
teaching assistant.
There are usually 58 or 59 lecture meetings in a semester.
The course carries 4 credit hours.
Prerequisites
The formal prerequisite for Com S 228 in the ISU catalog is
``[Com S] 227, [and] credit or enrollment in Math 165.''
One reason for the math corequisite is that both programming and math
involve problem solving.  You won't get the maximum benefit from Com S 228
if you haven't done enough problem solving.
Another reason is that there are various mathematical subjects
(e.g., algorithm analysis, logic) that are used in the textbook.
Finally, Math 165 is a prerequisite for subsequent courses in the theoretical
part of the Computer Science curriculum (e.g., Com S 330).
You should have the following skills from Com S 227:
ability to us