COSC 1320 Introduction to
Computer Science II
Having as many practices as possible is the right way to learn a
language!
There is NO lab for this course, so please do compile and modify
the provided examples!
Spring 2014
Instructor
:
Guoning Chen
Location
:
D3 E321
Time
:
Tue/Th. 10am~11:30am
Office hours
:
Tue/Th. 11:30am~12:30pm
at PGH 566
TA:
Xifeng Gao
TA office hours:
Th3~5pm, Fri 1~3pm at
PGH
300A
There will be a review section on EVERY FRIDAY from 10am to 1pm at room
PGH 376.
Other TAs from the other section:
please see the
information in the blackboard learn
Course summary
This course aims to introduce the students the
principles of object-oriented programming with the examples of C++ and Java
languages.
The goal is to prepare students with the
fundamental programming skills of C++ and Java for the future large-scale OOP
tasks.
Prerequisites:
COSC 1410 Introduction to Computer Science I
Textbooks (required):
Absolute C++ (5th edt.), Absolute Java (5th edt.),
Walter Savitch, Addison-Wesley.
Recommended Reading:
C++ How to program , 8/e, Deitel and Deitel,
2012, Prentice Hall, ISBN-10: 0132662361 , ISBN-13: 9780132662369
Java How to Program: Late Objects Version, 8/e,
Deitel, 2010 , Prentice Hall,ISBN-10: 0136123716 , ISBN-13:
9780136123712.
Java Programming: Comprehensive Concepts and
Techniques, 3rd Edition
Shelly, Cashman, Starks, Mick, 2006 Course
Technology, a division of Thompson Learning.
Object-Oriented Software Engineering Using UML,
Patterns, and Java, 3/E, Bruegge & Dutoit, 2010, Prentice Hall.ISBN-10:
0136061257, ISBN-13: 9780136061250.
Software and IDE (tutorials should be
available in the blackboard learn):
Microsoft Visual Studio 2012/2010/2008/2005 (for
C++ on windows)
Xcode (for C++ on Mac)
Eclipse (for Java)
UML editor
Detailed syllabus is available in the blackboard
learn.
Schedule and Materials
Come and visit often as the materials will be
updated without notice.
Week 1 (Ch 6~8, except 7.3)
Main goal:
review OOP principles,
important concepts of class, object, encapsulation, abstract data type (ADT),
constructors,
Knowledge points that you should
know:
What is the difference between structured programming and object-oriented
programming? (algorithm centric vs. object centric)
What is a class and its relation to object? (A class is a user-defined
type that consists of both member variables and functions. An object of a
defined class is its instance or variable)
How to access member variables and functions? (Define an object and use
dot operator "." to
access only "public" members
)
How to implement member functions outside of the class body? (
return_type class_name::function_name(argument list) {function
body}
)
How to use "public" or "private" to limit the access to certain members
of a class? and Why? (to achieve encapsulation)
NOTE THAT the default access without specification is "private" for a
class, but "public" for a structure!
What is an abstract data type (ADT)?
What does encapsulation mean? (enclose both attributes and behaviors,
information and implementation detailed hidden, good interface and
comments...)
Can you tell the difference between structure and class now?
How to define and initialize an object from a pre-defined class?
(class_name object_name(initial parameters);)
What is the way to define a constructor (pp.276, must have the
same name as the class
, NO RETURN TYPE)
What does a constructor do? Can it be defined under a "private"
section?
How many different constructors one class can have? (default constructor,
overloaded constructors)
How to initialize member variables in a constructor? (direct or via an
initialization section)
How to manage dynamic memory allocation? (see the additional examples,
new
operator)
Why do we need destructor and how to define it?
(
~class_name(){body};
NO RETURN TYPE,
ARGUMENT LIST IS
ALWAYS EMPTY
)
Using
"const
" in class and define member functions with
"const"
type. Why do we need that? (pp.295, Do not want a
member function to change member variables)
Using "static" members in class. Why do we need that? (pp.303, All the
objects of the class shared one variable, e.g. a token for take or a
counter, it is better to be defined as "static")
Overloaded operator functions. Why do we need that? (pp. 322, apply '-',
'+', '>', '==', etc. to objects that are not basic types, pp.343 the
rules)
What is the difference when overloading operator functions as the member
functions vs. non-member functions? (one parameter less!)
operator '=' is overloaded when the member variables have
pointer type!
Friend functions (especially for overloaded operators). How do we define
them? Why do we need that? (pp.338, Auto type conversion +Access other
class private members directly, not-so encapsulated, though)
Additional examples: (
Again, please
compile and play with the following examples, try to break the rules and see
what would happen!
)
An example of course grade for students,
cpp1
,
cpp2
,
(constructors, destructor, dynamic memory allocation)
An example of a clock class
cpp3
(constructors and operator overloading)
An example of car
cpp4
(constructors)
A different employee example
cpp5
(constructors, destructor, dynamic memory allocation, dynamic creation of
objects)
Please be familiar with your selected
programming environment.
Be sure to compile and execute the examples
of the textbook and the course webpage!
Week 2 (Ch.14) Inheritance, UML
intro
Main goal:
understand the mechanism
and benefits of inheritance of OOP, and know how to implement it in C++. Basic
knowledge on UML (will get familiar with it through subsequent exercises)
Knowledge points that you should
know:
How to do composition and why it is useful? (To build up complex objects
by "compositing" many basic objects, like building a car.
In OOP,
you use the objects of pre-defined classes as the member
variables
.)
How to initialize the composited objects? (see the additional slides in
the review of last week)
What is the inheritance and why is it useful? (see the ad