CSCI 4531/6531
Toggle navigation
About
(current)
Syllabus
Schedule
Worksheets
Homework
Project
CSCI 4531/6531 Computer Security
Instructor
Jie Zhou
Email
jie.zhou@gwu.edu
Office
SEH 4590
Lectures
Wed 12:45–3:15 p.m. at PHIL B152
Office Hours
Tues 2–3 p.m.
TA
Arwa Alsahdi
TA Office Hours
Tues 11 a.m.–12 p.m. at SEH 4th floor meeting area
Graders:
Shrey Patel
,
Oscar Fang
Course Description
Digital services, such as online work and communications via smartphones, are a cornerstone of our modern society. We
want
these services to be convenient, fast, and feature-rich. We also, however,
need
them to be
secure
and
trustworthy
. This course aims to introduce students to the most fundamental concepts and principles in computer security, preparing them with a
secure mindset
and a foundation for advanced studies in subareas such as network security and software security.
Website Resources
Syllabus
Schedule
Worksheets
Homework
Project
Text Book
Computer Security and the Internet: Tools and Jewels from Malware to Bitcoin
, Second Edition. Paul C. van Oorschot. Springer, 2021.
Credits and Copyright
This course is based (with permission) on material provided by Adam Aviv, taught at the George Washington University, Scott Ruoti, taught at University of Tennessee at Knoxville, and Daniel Zappala, taught at Brigham Young University. Other material developed from Carmela Tronscoso, Mathias Payer, Joe Goldfrank. Other material are provided credit where appropriate.
All teaching materials in this class, including slides, homework, assignments, practice exams and quizzes, are copyrighted either by Jie Zhou or others. Reproduction, redistribution is not permissible without explicit permission, such as uploading any or part of these materials to public or private websites without the instructor’s explicit consent or the copyright holder. Violating this copyright policy will be considered an academic integrity violation.
Reading materials linked off this website, such as the textbook, are also copyrighted by their respective publishers and/or authors and cannot be re-posted without prior authorization from the publisher. Those materials used here for the purpose of education.
© Copyright 2026 Jie Zhou. Powered by
Jekyll
with
al-folio
theme. Hosted by
GitHub Pages
.