COMP 1002 -- Introduction to Logic for Computer Scientists, Fall 2020
Announcements
|
Course information
|
Labs
|
Slides
Announcements
13/9/2020 The first lab,
Lab 0
, will be this coming week, on Monday Sep 14th for section 1, and  Thursday Sep 17th for section 2. Please login to
Brightspace
to access the link for connecting to it; the link will be specific to your lab shift. Look through the lab and do "before you begin" part before connecting.
31/8/2020 If you have trouble enrolling in the course, please email
cs-ugradadv@mun.ca
. I have  no control over registration...  If you still cannot get in by Wednesday, Sep 16, please email me and I will arrange an access to materials for you.
Course information
Course website:
http://www.cs.mun.ca/~kol/courses/1002-f20
. Also see
Brightspace (D2L)
.
Instructor:
Antonina
Kolokolova
The course information below is
very tentative!
The way the lectures/tests/labs are done and the marking scheme, in particular, are likely to change depending on everybody's availability, enrolment, software licenses and other factors.
Syllabus
(printable)
Lectures
Lectures (except tutorials) will be pre-recorded, and posted throughout the semester on the
Brightspace.
Tutorials
We will have a special one hour synchronous lecture ("tutorial") every week  (with several options for time slots, to be decided by a survey at the start of the semester). It is likely to be offered on Zoom.
Labs:
The lab descriptions will be posted weekly, ahead of time, together with practice exercises for the week. The labs themselves will consist of a group activity, done synchronously on Zoom, during lab time slots. The slots will be split into two shifts 1 hour and 15 minutes each; use “groups” tool on Brightspace to select which shift you prefer.  The questions based on each lab will appear in a corresponding weekly quiz due Thursday evening, together with questions based on that week’s practice exercises.
Note: this is still very tentative!
Instructor office hours:
TBD, on Zoom.
Textbook: (not required)
Discrete Mathematics and Its Applications: Kenneth H. Rosen.
Reference books:
Mathematics for Computer Scientists:  Eric Lehman, F Tom Leighton and Albert R Meyer.
(available for free under
Creative commons
license.)
Discrete Mathematics With Applications: Susanna S. Epp
Equipment:
The two tools we are going use are
Brightspace
(course shell, formerly known as D2L, including Bongo videoconferencing) and
Zoom
(videoconferencing).
All course materials will be posted on
Brightspace
. You should be automatically enrolled when you register for the course; click  Brightspace link to login (with your MUN id and password) to access the course shell.    Quizzes, tests, etc will take place in Brightspace as well, and links for labs and tutorials,  as well as lecture recordings and slides will be posted there. I will be using Brightspace for announcements, and Brightspace’s discussion board will be our main place to ask questions and get answers.
To attend tutorials,  and office hours, you will need a device which can run Zoom; you do not need a paid account. If connecting from a computer, you will need to install Zoom app (and create a free account) in order to be able to use whiteboard (it does not work from a browser). The labs are in Bongo virtual classroom, accessible through
Brightspace
. It would be nice, though not required, if you could connect with voice and, possibly, video (especially for the labs, to make it easier to work together); at the very least, you should be able to type in a chat and write or type on the whiteboard.
Please use your real name during labs, tutorials and office hours; however, do not put your student number anywhere on Zoom:  your student number should be kept private!
Marking scheme:
Weekly quizzes (9 x 6%, lowest mark dropped unless some lab gets cancelled). Based on labs as well as posted exercises (with examples covered in tutorials).
Drills (repeatable online exercises) 17 x 1%.
Tests: two tests of increasing length and difficulty,  15% and 20%. Dates TBD.
Note that the second test is likely to be scheduled during the last week of classes, or during exams period.
The first test is likely to be around Thanksgiving break.
Course description
Logic has been called the "calculus of computer science": just as sciences
such as physics that deal with continuous realm rely on calculus techniques,
we rely on logic. Indeed, so many areas of our field are based on logic: from
designing circuits to determining complexity of problems; from verifying
correctness of algorithms and devising database queries to automated
reasoning in artificial intelligence.
This course is intended to be an introduction to mathematical logic with
emphasis on Computer Science applications and methodologies.  We will cover propositional
and predicate logic with applications, including the Resolution proof technique, which is the
basis of most modern-day automated problem solvers. Then we will discuss basic
proof techniques such as mathematical induction, again with computer science
applications. We will also touch upon basic combinatorics, counting methods and probability, and theory of computation.
Labs
Labs start on Sep 14 or 17, depending on your section. There will be no lab during Thanksgiving week, and during last week of classes.
Lab 0: Sep 14/17
Lab 1: Sep 21/24
Lab 2: Sep 28/Oct 1
Lab 3: Oct 5/8
Thanksigiving week, no lab.
Lab 4: Oct 19/20
Lab 5: Oct 26/29
Lab 6: Nov 2/5
Lab 7: Nov 9/12
Lab 8: Nov 16/19
Lab 9: Nov 23/26
Lectures and tutorials
I will be posting slides as we go; you are welcome to check
the slides and other materials from the previous semester.
Here is the
A study guide
for the midterm
and for the final exams
Here is a
guide from a famous mathematician Polya
on how to approach solving problems.
Unit 0: Course information
overview
Introduction to the course.
Introduction video
Unit 1: Introduction to the language of logic
overview
slides (PowerPoint)
slides (PDF