Introduction to Computer Vision
Georgia Tech CS 6476 Fall 2020 edition
Home
Book
Resources
Syllabus
Schedule
Projects
Syllabus
Learning Objectives
Upon completion of this course, students should be able to:
Recognize and describe both the theoretical and practical aspects of computing with images. Connect issues from Computer Vision to Human Vision
Describe the foundation of image formation and image analysis. Understand the basics of 2D and 3D Computer Vision.
Become familiar with the major technical approaches involved in computer vision. Describe various methods used for registration, alignment, and matching in images.
Get an exposure to advanced concepts, including state of the art deep learning architectures, in all aspects of computer vision.
Build computer vision applications with python and the pytorch framework.
Prerequisites
No prior experience with computer vision is assumed, although previous knowledge of visual computing or signal processing will be helpful. The following skills are necessary for this class:
Data structures: You’ll be writing code that builds representations of images, features, and geometric constructions.
Programming: Projects are to be completed and graded in Python. All project starter code will be in Python. TA’s will support questions about Python. If you’ve never used Python that is OK, as long as you have programming experience.
Math: Linear algebra, vector calculus, and probability. Linear algebra is the most important and students who have not taken a linear algebra course have struggled in the past.
Grading
This project is heavily project-based, but there will be graded quizzes administered through canvas. The grading distribution is:
Component
Nr.
Grade
Total
Project 0
1%
1%
Projects
5
15%
75%
Quizzes
6
4%
24%
100%
Late policy for this course will be 10% per day late, as discussed on the first day of class and clarified on Piazza.
Academic Integrity
Academic dishonesty will not be tolerated. This includes cheating, lying about course matters, plagiarism, or helping others commit a violation of the Honor Code. Plagiarism includes reproducing the words of others without both the use of quotation marks and citation. Students are reminded of the obligations and expectations associated with the Georgia Tech Academic Honor Code and Student Code of Conduct, available online at www.honor.gatech.edu.
You are expected to implement the core components of each project on your own, but the extra credit opportunties often build on third party data sets or code. That’s fine. Feel free to include results built on other software, as long as you are clear in your handin that it is not your own work.
You should not view or edit anyone else’s code. You should not post code to Piazza, except for starter code / helper code that isn’t related to the core project.
Important Links:
Piazza
. This should be your first stop for questions and announcements.
Gradescope
will be used to hand in assignments.
Contact Info and Office Hours:
If possible, please use Piazza to ask questions and seek clarifications before emailing the instructor or staff.
Sergio Aguilera
sfaguile@gatech.edu
Sen Wang
swang736@gatech.edu
Arvindkumar Krishnakumar
akrishna@gatech.edu
Ayush Baid
abaid@gatech.edu
Vijay Upadhya
vijay.upadhya7@gmail.com
Jing Wu
jingwu@gatech.edu
Haoxin Ma
haoxin.m@gatech.edu
Acknowledgements
The materials from this class rely significantly on slides prepared by other instructors, especially James Hays, Derek Hoiem, Svetlana Lazebnik, and Judy Hoffmann. Each slide set and assignment contains acknowledgements. Feel free to use these slides for academic or research purposes, but please maintain all acknowledgements.
Covid 19 Information
The fall semester 2020 is especially challenging due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Even though CS 6476 will be taught remotely, please take note of the information below.  The most up-to-date information on Covid-19 is on the
TECH Moving Forward
website.
Expectations and Guidelines
Each of us has a responsibility to ourselves and our fellow Yellow Jackets to be mindful of our shared commitment.
We are all required to wear a face covering while inside any campus facilities/buildings, including during in-person classes, and to adhere to social distancing of at least 6 feet
.
Information on the Institute’s policy on face coverings.
Students are expected to sit in assigned seats and to come to class only on days that are assigned to them.
Papers, projects, tests, homework, and other assignments will only be accepted in electronic form unless the assignment is a physical artifact.
Additional information is available in the
Student Guidebook
.
Instructor Illness or Exposure to Covid-19
During the fall 2020 semester, some faculty members may be required to quarantine due to exposure or isolate due to a Covid-19 diagnosis. Some disruption to classes or services is inevitable, but Georgia Tech is making every effort to ensure continuity of operations. As is the case in any semester, faculty may cancel a class if they have an illness or emergency situation and cover any missed material at their own discretion. If we need to cancel a class, we will notify students as early as possible.
Student Illness or Exposure to Covid-19
During the semester, you may be required to quarantine or self-isolate to avoid the risk of infection to others.  Quarantine is the separation of those who have been exposed to someone with Covid-19 but who are not ill; isolation is the separation of those who have tested positive for Covid-19 or been diagnosed with Covid-19 by symptoms.
If you have not tested positive but are ill or have been exposed to someone who is ill, please follow the
Covid-19 Exposure Decision Tree
for reporting your illness.
During the quarantine or isolation period you may feel completely well, ill but able to work as usual, or too ill to work until you recover.
Unless you are too ill to work, you should be able to complete your remote work while in quarantine or