CSCI 246: Discrete Structures
Spring Semester 2026
Meeting Times and Locations
Lecture: Monday, Wednesday, and Friday 1410-1500 in REID 401
Instructor
Charlie Murphy
: Office Hours are Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 1510-1600 and by appointment in Barnard 344.
Textbook and Resources
Mathematics: A Discrete Introduction
by Edward A. Scheinerman, 3rd Edition.
Alternative textbook:
Discrete Mathematics with Applications
by Susanna S. Epp, 4th Edition.
Computer Science
Help Center
.
Private tutors can be arranged through
SmartyCats
for $2/hour.
Catalog Description
This course covers logic, discrete probability, recurrence relations, Boolean algebra, sets, relations, counting,
functions, maps, Big-O notation, proof techniques including induction, and proof by contradiction
Course Outcomes
Apply formal proof techniques, including mathematical induction and proof by contradiction.
Use algorithmic complexity to compare different program designs for a problem.
Solve problems that require logic, sets, combinations, permutations and functions.
Solve problems that require discrete probability.
Solve problems that use basic graph theory.
Graded Items
Attendence - 10%.
Experiences has shown that students who attend class regularly tend to perform better than students who do not.
If you attend at least 80% of the days attendence are taken, you will earn the entire 10%. Otherwise, your
percent will reflect your attendance rate when attendance is taken.
Participation - 5%.
Experience shows that students who actively participate in class perform better than students who do not.
You are expected to answer questions and attempt solutions when called upon. It is normal and expected that
you may not know every answer or solution; attempting is sufficient for full credit.
Assignments - 30% (all weighted equally).
Final Presentation - 25%.
Final Take Home Exam - 30%
Grading Policy
Grades will be determined (after any curving takes place) based on your class average as follows:
93+: A
90+: A-
87+: B+
83+: B
80+: B-
77+: C+
73+: C
70+: C-
67+: D+
63+: D
60+: D-
Late Policy
It is expected that you will turn in homework in person at the beginning of class on the day the Assignment is due; if you will
be absent the day an assignment is due, you may submit your homework by email before the start of the class the assignment is due.
Any assignment submitted after the due date will be given the grade of 0%.
For all assignments, you may re-submit the assignment a week following the return of graded assignments with corrections for up-to 50%
of the remaining points. For example, if you originally scored 60% on an assignment, you may resubmit a corrected assignment for up-to
20% additional credit. If you scored 0% on an assignment (e.g., because it was not turned in on time), you may gain up-to 50% on the
assignment when submitting it during the regrading period.
The final take home exam is to be turned in at the beginning of the last class meeting of the course. Failure to submit by the due
date will result in a 0%. As with assignments, if under extenuating circumstances you cannot attend the final course meeting, you
may submit the final take home exam via email before the final course meeting begins. The final take home exam cannot be re-submitted
for re-grading.
Collaboration Policy
All students should read the
MSU Student Conduct Code
.
When it comes to assignments, you should do your own work but you
may
Work with other people in your group (if groups are allowed). Each assignment will specify the maximum number of people per team.
Share ideas with people in other teams.
Discuss high level proof and problem solving techniques.
If you discuss with someone from another team, you are expected to list each person and what you discussed for each problem of each assignment.
You may not
Copy anothers or share your own solution to assignments.
Post assignments or problems to the internet.
Academic misconduct will result in an "F" for the course and being reported to the Dean of Students.
Generative AI Policy
Similar to the collaboration policy, students should treat interacting with
Generative AI chatbots (e.g., chatgpt, claude, gemini) as interacting with
another student in a separate team. You are expected to completely understand
and come-up with solutions yourself (or with your team if applicable).
When it comes to assignments, you
may
Discuss high level proof and problem solving techniques.
Seek solutions to similar but distinct problems.
When you interact with a generative AI on an assignment, you must cite which
generative AI chatbot you interacted with for each problem on each assignment.
Additionally, you should provide what was discussed with the chatbot and/or provide
the prompts used.
You may not
Prompt a generative AI chatbot/Agent to solve a problem for you.
Post the entire assignment or problem to the AI chatbot/Agent.
Academic misconduct will result in an "F" for the course and being reported to the Dean of Students.
Course Calendar
Schedule is subject to change
Date / Class Recordings
Lecture Topic
Readings
Assignments Due
Wednesday, January 14
Friday, January 16
Intro & Syllabus
Definitions
Ch. 1 Sec. 1-2
Ch. 1 Sec. 3
Monday, January 19
Wednesday, January 21
Friday, January 23
No class - MLK Day
Theorems
Proofs
Ch. 1 Sec. 4
Ch. 1 Sec. 5
Monday, January 26
Wednesday, January 28
Friday, January 30
Counter Examples
Boolean Algebra
Proof Systems
Ch 1. Sec. 6
Ch 1. Sec. 7
Monday, February 2
Wednesday, February 4
Friday, February 6
Lists
Factorial
Sets
Ch. 2 Sec. 8
Ch. 2 Sec. 9
Ch. 2 Sec. 10
Assignment 1
Monday, February 9
Wednesday, February 11
Friday, February 13
Quantifiers
Set Operations
Relations
Ch. 2 Sec. 11
Ch. 2 Sec. 12-13
Ch. 3 Sec. 14
Monday, February 16
Wednesday, February 18
Friday, February 20
No class - Presidents Day
Equivalance Relations
Partitions
Ch. 3 Sec. 15
Ch. 3 Sec. 16
Assignment 2
Monday, February 23
Wednesday, February 25
Friday, February 27
Binomial Coefficients
Contradition
Smalles