ECS30-A: Introduction to Programming and Problem Solving, Fall 2008
Lecture
:
6 Wellman, MWF 10:00am - 10:50am
Discussion
:
Sec.30-A01, M 4:10-5:00pm, 115 Hutchinson
Sec.30-A02, F 1:10-2:00pm, 176 Chemistry
Sec.30-A03, R 8:00-8:50am, 1006 Giedt
Professor
:
Zhaojun Bai
,
3005 Kemper Hall, 752-4874, bai@cs.ucdavis.edu
Office Hours: MWF 11:30-12:30 or by appointment
Teaching Assistant
:
Stanley Tzeng
, stzeng@ucdavis.edu
Office hours: M 1:00-3:00pm and W 4:10-5:10pm, 53 Kemper
Matthew Lietzke
, mjlietzke@ucdavis.edu
Office hours: T 3:30-5:00pm and R 4:10-5:40pm, 53 Kemper
Webpage
Textbook
:
Hanly, Jeri R., and Koffman, Elliot B,
Problem Solving and Program Design in C, 5th ed.
,
Addison Wesley, 2007, ISBN-10: 0321409914,  ISBN-13: 9780321409911
Course objectives
:
learn how to use Unix operating system tools to develop and debug programs,
develop expertise in using C programming language,
understand the process of writing efficient and robust programs to
solve problems.
Course Outline
Unix tools, including vi, make, and gdb, to develop and debug programs
Algorithms: general concept, development of efficient algorithms.
Programming in C
Scalar data types, concept of data type, standard and
user-defined scalar types.
Simple Statements, arithmetic and boolean expressions,
assignment statements, simple input and output statements.
Flow of control, repetitive statements, conditional statements,
unconditional branching
Data structures: single and multidimensional arrays; character
strings; structs.
Functions: general concept; declaration and calls; & and * operators;
parameters; introduction to recursion.
Software engineering: running, debugging, testing programs,
building quality programs.
Prerequisite
Math 16A or 21A (may be taken concurrently); prior experience
with basic programming concepts recommended.
Homeworks and Exams
:
There will be about 8 program projects/homework assignments.
Written homework must be submitted in Room 2131 by 4pm on the date due.
Programs will be submitted using the
handin
facility of Unix.
Programs will be due at 11:50pm on the date due.
No late homework will be accepted!
All exams are closed-book, no notes allowed.
Grading
:
Grading breakdown:
Programming projects (homework): 35%
Two midterm exams: 40%
Final exam: 25%
Regrading is only considered within one week (7 days) from the date return.
The request must be submitted in writing.
On-line Info/Discussion
:
Class webpage: http://www.cs.ucdavis.edu/~bai/ECS30
class annoucements, assignments and notes will be posted on this site.
Course questions and discussions should be posted to
the
ucd.class.ecs30.sec-a.d
newsgroup at the URL
http://news.ucdavis.edu
(web-based news reader)
E-mail to Instructor/TAs should only be regarding personal matters.
Distribution list
9/26
Introduction and logistics
Norman Matloff's toturial page
: Read, at least,
`if you have no Unix background at all'
`The Unix file system'
`Extremely quick and simple introduction to the Vi Text editor'
Work your way through
Sean Davis' ECS30 Unix tutorial
and
vi tutorial
Everyone who is enrolled should have a computer account set up for
using computers in the CS Instructional facility (CSIF) in the basement
of Kemper Hall. Go to the CSIF lab to look up your user name. Your
initial password is the last 8 digits of your student ID.
If you want to change your password, and you should want to, read
the man file for the Unix command yppasswd (type man yppasswd),
to learn more about the command. Help is available in room 47 for
using the labs. Note that this help is for using the labs, not
help with CS 30.
You may also log into the CSIF machines remotely
(see
UCDAVIS Computer Science at Home
).
Or you can work on any other machine that has Unix, and a C compiler
for writing C programs, and internet access.
Note: Different systems
(operating systems, computer type, configurations, libraries etc.)
can behave differently, so a C program written on one machine and system
might not behave exactly the same on a different machine or system
(an ugly reality!). You may find it more convenient to do most of your
work at home, or in another lab, BUT before handing in your program,
you must make sure it works correctly on the machines in the CSIF.
Those are the machines we will use when we compile, run and grade
your programs. If your programs don't run correctly there, it will
not matter to the grader that they ran correctly elsewhere. It is
your responsibility to port your programs in time to the CSIF and
test them there. It will not be a legitimate excuse that the connection
to the CSIF was down just before the assignment was due. Also,
we (Instructors and the TAs) can only give very limited help on problems
you encounter on machines and systems outside of the CSIF, and how to
set up the software to work at home, or connect to the CSIF remotely.
Campus IT staff and the CSIF staff can also help somewhat on those
issues if you run into problems.
Unless stated otherwise, all assignments are meant to be done
individually. Of course you can discuss some aspects of the assignment
with others, but each student is expected to individually work out assignments.
If you have any questions about the degree of individuality that
is expected, please ask. We may routinely run all the submitted homework
programs through a utility that finds pairs of programs that
are ``too similar". We really don't like dealing with such a situation,
so please design and write your programs yourself. Also, you will
learn much more that way, and be better prepared for exams.
Discussion sections in the first week of 9/29-10/3 will be
held in the CSIF Computer Lab (room 67).  After the first week, all the
discussion sections will be held in their scheduled classrooms.
Learning C requires learning a great number of exacting details
and you will not get your C programs working unless you learn
those details. However, in the long run, what is of value is learning
how to
think
like a programmer, how to
or