CISC 3115 Introduction to Modern Programming Techniques
Syllabus
Schedule
Assignments
Review for Exams
Resources
Syllabus
CISC 3115 Introduction To Modern Programming Techniques (Section MY3)
Spring 2024 (01/25/2024 – 05/22/2024)
by
Professor Hui Chen
,
CUNY Brooklyn College
Table of Content
Instructor
Office Hours and Contact
Class Meetings
In-Person Class Meeting
Course Description
Learning Objectives
Textbook
Academic Regulations and Procedures
Academic Integrity
Student Disability Services
Consideration of Religious Observance
Policy and Software for Online Exam Proctoring
Important Dates
Attendance and Participation
Late Attendance
Assignments and Examinations
In-Class Exercises
CodeLab Assignments
Programming Assignments
Midterm and Final Examinations
Assignment Submission
Late Submission
Grade Calculation
Letter Grade
Tips for Success
Access to the Internet and Information Technology
Work Hours
Lecture Participation
Group and Peer Learning
Video Conferencing Tools
The Brooklyn College Learning Center
The Brooklyn College Student Support Services
Office Hours
Instructional Technologies
Support and Resources
Instructor
Professor Hui Chen, Ph.D.
Office: Room 1432N Ingersoll Hall (No appointment is necessary during office hours.)
Office Hours and Contact
Office Hours: 6:00 - 7:00, Monday ;6:00 - 7:00, Wednesday
Office Hours Access: No appointment is necessary during office hours.
E-mail:
chen@sci.brooklyn.cuny.edu
E-mail Policy: When e-mailing the instructor, include your name and course section in the subject. The instructor will generally reply your message before next class meeting.
Class Meetings
Class Meeting:  3:40 - 5:20 PM Monday;  3:40 - 5:20 PM Wednesday;
Class Meeting Method: In-Person
Classroom: 1127 IH
In-Person Class Meeting
The College designates this class as a in-person class in this semester, i.e., we shall  convene class meetings including all exams and tests at the designated times and at the designated classroom.
Course Description
4 hours;
4 credits
A second course in programming. Programming techniques emphasizing reliability, maintainability, and reusability. Multi-file programs. Abstract data types. Objects, classes, and object-oriented design. Test suites, test drivers, and testing strategies; debugging, assertions, and an introduction to formal techniques. Recursion, event-driven programming and threads, GUI programming, and simple network programming (Not open to students who are enrolled in or have completed CISC 3110.)
Prerequisite: Prerequisite: CISC 1115
Learning Objectives
By the end of this course, students should be able
to understand the four principles of object-oriented programming, i.e., abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism;
to understand Java class definition, including the use of constructors and static members;
to understand Java objects, the concepts of state and behavior, and their realization in the Java programming language;
to design and implement applications with multiple Java classes,  interfaces, and objects;
to design and implement Java methods with recursion and iteration;
to understand exception handling and apply it in Java application design;
to design and implement Java programs with Java’s Collections API;
to understand concurrent and event-driven programming basics and to apply these in GUI (graphical user interface) application design and implementation;
to understand test-driven development basics and apply tests to aid Java program design, implementation, and quality assurance;
to use basic Unix command line operators to support Java programming;
to use Integrated Development Environment to support Java programming; and
to apply self-learning and research skills including searching on the Web and reading Java API documentation for problem solving in Java application design, implementation, and testing.
Textbook
Liang, Y. D. (2017).
Introduction to Java Programming and Data Structures, Comprehensive Version
(11th ed.). Pearson.
[
Pearson
]
[
Book Store
]
[
Table of Content
]
Academic Regulations and Procedures
All students should carefully and thoroughly read the section entitled
Academic Regulations and Procedures
in the Brooklyn College
Undergraduate or Graduate Bulletin
for a complete listing of academic regulations of the College.
Academic Integrity
The faculty and administration of Brooklyn College support an environment free from cheating and plagiarism. Each student is responsible for being aware of what constitutes cheating and plagiarism and for avoiding both. The complete text of the CUNY Academic Integrity Policy and the Brooklyn College procedure for policy implementation can be found at
www.brooklyn.edu/policies.
If a faculty member suspects a violation of academic integrity and, upon investigation, confirms that violation, or if the student admits the violation, the faculty member MUST report the violation. Students should be aware that faculty may use plagiarism detection software.
Student Disability Services
The Center for Student Disability Services (CSDS) is committed to ensuring students with disabilities enjoy an equal opportunity to participate at Brooklyn College. In order to receive disability-related academic accommodations, students must first be registered with CSDS. Students who have a documented disability or suspect they may have a disability are invited to schedule an interview by calling (718) 951-5538 or emailing Josephine.Patterson@brooklyn.cuny.edu If you have already registered with CSDS, email Josephine.Patterson@brooklyn.cuny.edu or testingcsds@brooklyn.cuny.edu to ensure accommodation emails are sent to your professor.
Consideration of Religious Observance
New York State Education Law (Title I, Article 5, Section 224-a) requires that the College
makes available to each student who is absent from school,
because of his [or her] religious beliefs, an equivalent
opportunity to make up any examination, study or work
requirements which he [or she] may have missed because