CSCI 1111 Spring 26
Syllabus
Schedule
Ed discussion board
Submitserver
On this page
Lectures and labs
Office Hours and grading
Objectives
Grade breakdown
Missed classes, late submissions and extensions
Grading, re-grade requests and grades on Blackboard
Professionalism
Selected university policies and recommendations
Instructor communication
CSCI 1111 Spring 2026
Lectures and labs
Lectures
: Tuesday/Thursday 11:10AM - 12:25PM in MPA B07 with
Dr. Kinga Dobolyi
Labs
:
Monday (Lab 1: Sec 30) 11:10AM - 1:00PM in TOMP 405 with
Laura Anker
, Evelina Naumovich, and Kiran Gill
Office Hours and grading
You can show up to office hours anytime listed below (without an appointment). Please come early in case other students are waiting.
Office Hours
:
Evelina Naumovich (UTA): Mondays and Wednesdays 4-5pm in SEH 4th floor couches
Laura Anker (GTA): Wednesdays 1:30pm-4:00pm in SEH 4th floor couches
Kiran Gill (LA): Mondays 9am-11am in SEH 4th floor couches
Dr Kinga: email me for a 15 minute appointment on
zoom
, between the hours of 9am through 4pm Monday through Thursday, schedule permitting
Objectives
Demonstrate familiarity with key concepts in a procedural programming language such as: variables, data types, control structures, methods, input and output.
Demonstrate the ability to use programming to solve problems appropriate to a beginning class in programming and software development.
Acquire familiarity with rudimentary processes of software development that include: design, coding, testing, and debugging.
The GW standard is that one credit hour corresponds to a minimum of 50 minutes of instruction plus 100 minutes of independent learning (e.g., homework and exam prep) per week. This is a 3 credit course, thus you should expect to spend 2.5-3 hours in class and 50 minutes in lab, plus four to five hours of independent learning per week, which may include completing programming assignments. Depending on your background, you may find it necessary to spend more time on this course outside of class.
There is no prerequisite for this course.
There is no required textbook for this course, and there are lots of free materials available online, though our lectures notes should also suffice. For an excellent summary and study guide, click
here
.
Grade breakdown
Your grade will be calculated as follows. Blackboard only reports raw scores and does not use the weights below.
Lecture/lab participation
(via quizzes and exercises): 5%
Homework assignments
: 5%
Coding quizzes
(quizzes 1-6): 75%
Debugging quizzes
(debugging 1-4): 15%
Professionalism: up to -5%
Final grade percentages
A (>= 92.0%) A– (>= 90.0%) B+ (>= 88.0%) B (>= 82.0%) B– (>= 80.0%)
C+ (>= 78.0%) C (>= 72.0%) C– (>= 70.0%)
D (>= 60.0%)
F (< 60.0%)
Lecture/lab participation (via quizzes and exercises)
Many lectures will have a short quiz on the lecture notes/reading (or on homework/project exercises) at the start of class. These quizzes will be completed on Blackboard and will be open for three minutes at the start of class. Late submissions will not be accepted. Other lectures and labs will have short participation exercises that students will submit; these will also count towards participation. We will
drop the three lowest participation scores
for the semester.
Homework assignments
Homework assignments are coding assignments, and will be graded based on what percent of the provided test cases they pass, as well as use of good coding style. We will
drop the lowest homework score
when calculating final grades. When using the submitserver,
your grade will be the score you see on the submitserver
. Make sure you leave yourself ample time before assignment submission to get help with any issues that you may run into when submitting your code.
Coding quizzes
Coding quizzes 1-6 are graded and will be completed individually, usually during lab; students will generally receive 20 minutes for such a quiz. You will usually have an option to retake the quiz for a higher grade, as indicated on the schedule. We will
NOT
be dropping the lowest such coding quiz grade.
You must attend the lab you registered for to take your quiz; we cannot accomodate students who wish to switch labs due to travel, etc.
Debugging quizzes
There will be four debugging quizzes in lecture and/or lab, with one attempt each. We will
NOT
drop the lowest such debugging quiz grade.
Quiz proctoring
Coding and debugging quizzes will typically be on a GW-provided laptop (without general internet access) in our testing center. TAs will be available in lab to answer syntax and submission questions ONLY (no help with your logic/semantics). Every effort will be made to serve students equally and fairly during these timed assessments, however, it is not feasible to maintain a proper queue and we cannot guarantee everyone’s question will be answered in the order received. We may revoke TA assistance with syntax errors in lab if there are too many complaints/concerns.
Students may submit non-compiling code for these quizzes; the professor will manually fix the first three such compilation errors (without modifying the semantics of your code) in an effort to allow your code to pass tests. No other partial credit will be given.
Students must take all proctored assessments during their assigned lab, in person. If a student doesn’t check-in for attendance when they finish their assessment, we must assign them a zero out of fairness to others.
Missed classes, late submissions and extensions
We
do not accept any late submissions
and we
do not offer extensions
. However, students will be able to drop their lowest homework assignment grade. You will also be able to re-attempt many coding quizzes for a higher grade using a makeup slot (see the course schedule). We do not offer makeups for makeup quizzes. If you miss the last coding quiz (quiz 6) you will recieve an incomplete for the course and will need to make it up by the first two weeks of the following semester via an in-person oral exam.
Students w