Distributed Systems
CSCI-B 534/ENGR-E 510 (Spring 2024)
Course Description
Distributed computing systems are complex, difficult to understand, and everywhere.
This course will cover the necessary principles, techniques, and tools for understanding, analyzing, and building distributed applications and systems. We will be looking at both distributed computing fundamentals, as well as study the design of popular distributed systems.
We will look at  how systems can communicate and coordinate through message passing, and study classical distributed algorithms involving logical and vector clocks, leader election, fault-tolerance, data-consistency, and consensus. Students will also learn about the design of large-scale distributed systems, and be expected to implement many of the ideas studied in class as part of homework assignments and projects.
Prerequisites
"To be able to use a second computer, you must know how to use the first one".
Distributed systems build upon and extend many classical areas in Computer Science. Strong fundamentals in Operating Systems, Computer Networks, and Algorithms are a must.
Text-books
We will use a combination of books and research papers.
Required
: Distributed Systems: Principles and Paradigms, 3rd Edition (Maarten Van Steen and Andrew Tanenbaum)
Online version
Recommended
: Elements of Distributed Computing (Vijay Garg)
Learning Objectives
A fundamental shift in how you think about computing: from serial programs to loosely coupled asynchrnous distributed systems.
Design and implement moderately complex distributed systems of your own
Understand classic distributed algorithms for synchronization, consistency, fault-tolerance, etc.
Reason about correctness of distributed algorithms, and derive your your own algorithms for special cases
Understand how modern distributed systems are designed and engineered.
Format
This course is designed and optimized for in-person socratic teaching. A typical in-class lecture comprises of starting with a simplistic solution, and collaboratively iterating on it to develop the final, correct solution.
Syllabus
Lecture
Topic
Reading
Notes
Module A
Overview and Prerequisites
1
Introduction to Distributed Computing
Chapter 1
1-Intro
2
Operating Systems: Processes
2-OS
3,4
Computer Networks
Chapter 4
3-net
5
OS Concurrency
5-concurrency
Module B
Logical Clocks
6
Event ordering and logical clocks
Lamport Clocks
, Chapter 6
6-Lamport
7
Total Order Multicast
[See previous]
8
Vector Clocks
8-VC
,
Vector clock proof
9
Vector clock applications and Causal Orders
Garg Chapter 4, 6
9-VC
,
Causal Order Broadcast
Module C
Classic Distributed Algorithms
10
Mutual exclusion and leader election
Chapter 6
10-Mutex
11
Shared Memory mutual execution
11-Bakery
12
Distributed Snapshots
Chapter 10 from Garg
12-Snapshots
13
MapReduce
MapReduce paper
7-MapReduce
14
Midterm prep
March 7
Midterm Exam
Module D
More Networking and Load-balancing
15
Remote Procedure Calls
Birrel and Nelson
Lec4-slides
16
High-level communication and publish-subscribe
ZeroMQ, Kafka
Lec6-slides
17
Load balancing
Lec12-notes
Module E
Distributed Data Storage
18
Consistency Models: Sequential Consistency
Chapter 7
Lec13-slides
19
Causal Consistency models
Chapter 7
Lec14-slides
20
CAP Theorem, Eventual Consistency
Lec15-slides
21
CRDT
Lec16-slides
22
Failures
Chapter 8
Lec17-slides
23–24
Consensus: Paxos
Chapter 8
Lec18-slides
Overflow
20
Raft and Zookeeper
raft
Zookeeper
21
Byzantine fault tolerance
Chapter 8
Lec21-slides
22
Spark Fault Tolerance
Spark
26
Distributed Filesystems
NFS, Ceph
Lec22-slides
27
Distributed Machine Learning
TensorFlow
Lec23-slides
28
Distributed Resource Management
Mesos, DRF, Sparrow
Lec24-slides
Important Dates
Date
Event
Around Lecture #12
Mid-term 1
Evaluation Criteria
The rough breakdown is as follows:
Mid-term
20%
Final
30%
Assignments and Homework
40%
Class participation and Quizzes
10%
Exams
The exams will test how well students have understood various distributed algorithms, correctness proofs,  edge-cases, tradeoffs, and real-life implementation considerations.
Programming Assignments
The assignments will be a mix of theory and distributed system design. Students will implement various classic distributed algorithms (such as Map-Reduce, totally ordered multicast, logical clocks, various consistency models in a distributed key-value store, etc.).
The design oriented assignments will involve a large degree of programming and debugging. In most cases, the programming assignments are language agnostic (you can pick any reasonable programming language).
A key learning objective of this course is to design, architect, and implement a distributed system
from scratch
, and to design useful test-cases for evaluating the implementation. Therefore, no starter-code or templates will be provided, to give students the maximum flexibility and freedom to explore the unconstrained design space. Points will be awarded for correct and faithful designs, complete implementation, adequate testing, and reports and documentation.
Most programming assignments
will
take significantly longer than you anticipate. Start early. Please see the assignment descriptions below (from last year), to get a sense of how they will look like. In general, all programming assignments in this course only specify the "end goal", and you must figure out how to get there: what and how to implement, what libraries to use, etc. There will be no starter-code, no templates, no training wheels. You are on your own.
Simple Data Store
Distributed Map-Reduce
Total Order Multicast
Project: Distributed KV Store
Homework
Classic distributed systems papers will be assigned for reading and review.
Active learning/In-person class participation
Students will learn about distributed algorithms using group activities in class. Typically, small groups of students will "emulate" a message-passing-based distributed algorithm, by passing messages (on post-it notes).
Late submission policy
Students can avail