UMCP (CMSC131)
Syllabus
Schedule
Office Hours
Projects
Resources
Submit Server
Grades Server
Eclipse
Piazza
Lecture Videos
Exams
Quizzes
Grading Concerns
Frequently Seen Mistakes
Other
CMSC131 (Summer 2024) - Object-Oriented Programming I
Syllabus
Introduction
This is the first programming course for Computer Science majors
with a focus on object-oriented programming. The goal of the course
is to develop skills such as program design and testing as well as
the implementation of programs using a graphical IDE. All programming
will be done in Java.
About the "Online" Version of CMSC131
The course content for this class will be offered on-line via pre-recorded lectures. You can watch the videos when you want, but you are responsible to watch them in a timely manner to keep up with the course.  In addition to pre-recorded lectures, we will periodically have online labs, quizzes, and  Q and A sessions.
The exams will be in-person and cannot be done on-line.  You must come to campus on Wednesday, June 26, Wednesday, July 17, and Friday, August 2 at 6PM.
.  While a tentative schedule will be provided, you are agreeing to be available on any given weekday from 6 to 7:20 during the summer term for synchronous online activity. Make ups for quizzes and exams will only be given for University valid reasons (e.g. an illness with an note from UHC).
Specifically, summer travel plans or summer jobs that conflict with a quiz or an exam date will not under any circumstances be a valid excuse for a make-up
.  Please do not ask for an exception to this rule.
The summer version of 131 will cover exactly the same material as the full term version.  This means the class will be
more difficult
as you will have to complete all the material in 10 weeks instead of 15 weeks.  Be ready to very work hard!  I would highly recommend you do not take another course or agree to any other major responsibilities (e.g. an internship) while you take this class.  You will have to make a major time commitment to this class in order to be successful
The specific schedule for the week will be posted on piazza by Sunday prior to the Monday that starts the week. You cannot assume that the same schedule will be used from one week to the next.  Again, since you have committed to be available online
EVERY CLASS DAY
during the summer term from 6:00 to 7:20 PM EST changes from week to week should not be an issue.
Prerequisites
Corerequisite
→ Math140
Credits
→ 4
Coordinators
Name
Office Number
Pedram Sadeghian
IRB 2214
Textbook
No textbook is required. With the information we provide in class you should be fine
(plus the web has lots of information about class concepts). If you would like to
have a textbook, here is a recommendation:
Absolute Java.
Course Topics (Subject to Change)
Intro to Computer Systems
Programming Basics:  Variables, Operators, Expressions, Statements, Methods
Java Text Input/Output
Conditionals
Loops
Principles of Object Oriented Programming
Basics of Program Design
Testing and Debugging
Java Memory Map
Arrays and Java ArrayLists
Java interfaces
Inheritance Overview
Recursion
Grading
32%
Projects
15%
Quizzes
33%
Semester Exams (2), (16% and 17%)
20%
Final Exam
Once we have graded any class material (e.g., exams, projects, etc.)
we will post an announcement and a deadline by which you must submit
any regrade request (if necessary).
It is your responsibility
to submit regrade requests by the specified deadline; no regrade
requests will be processed afterwards.
Projects
Deadlines
-
All projects are due at
11:30 pm
on the specified day
in the project description. You have until
11:30 pm
of
the next day to submit your project with a
12%
penalty. Notice that after the late period, you will not receive
any points for your project.
For example,
if a project is due on Wednesday at 11:30 pm, you have until Thursday
at 11:30 pm to submit a late project with a 12% penalty. Any submission
after Thursday 11:30 pm will receive 0 pts.
Please do not send an email asking for an exception because you turned it in a "few minutes late".  If the server says it is late or passed the deadline, that will be the time that will be used to calculate your grade.
Submit Server
-
You need to use the
submit server
for project
submissions. We will not accept projects submitted otherwise (e.g.,
e-mail, etc.). Notice that we use the submit server results to
compute a significant portion of your project's grade. You need to
make sure that your project works in the submit server, otherwise you
will not get any credit.  Even if it works on your local machine, log into the submit server and make sure it works in the server.
Which Project Gets Graded
-
We will grade the project submission with
the highest submit server score after the late penalty (if any) has been applied. As you can submit as often as you want, you might have more than one submission with the same high score.  In that case, your last such submission will be used for grading by the TA.  Your actual project grade recorded in the grade server may be lower than the submit server score if manual deductions are made by the grading TA.  Please follow all rules from the start of the projects as the TAs will only grade the one submission downloaded by the server (as described above).  In other words, you can not pick and choose what you want the TA to grade for the manual grading portion.
Closed Projects
-
All programming assignments in this course are to be written
individually (unless explicitly indicated otherwise).
Cooperation
between students, using old projects from former students, using the web to find code, or AI use to develop your code, are  all violations of the Code of Academic Integrity.
We take this very seriously and will report you to the Office of Student Conduct.
Regarding Posting of Project Implementations
Do not post your assignment's implementation online (e.g.,
GitHub, PasteBin) where they can be seen by others. Making your
code accessible to others will lead to academic