CS 1340 Fall 2020
Python for CS and DS
Installing Python
Syllabus
Schedule
Lectures
Homework
Homework 01
Homework 02
Homework 03
Homework 04
Homework 05
Homework 06
Homework 07
Projects
Project 01 - Getting an A!… or a B!
Project 02 - The Geometry Helper
Project 03 - Snowman: The Complete Edition
Project 04 - Exploratory Data Analysis
Project 05 - More Snowman
Project 06 - California Housing Data Continued Exploration
This site uses
Just the Docs
, a documentation theme for Jekyll.
markfontenot.net
CS 1340 - Intro to CS and DS in Python
Fall 2020 - SMUFlex Version
Overview
This class introduces programming concepts using Python and its applications in computer science and data science. It is appropriate for anyone who is interested in using programming language to solve real world problems, especially data science problems. Python is a great option for a first programming language, and we are going to cover some very common libraries as well, including
numpy
,
pandas
,
scikit-learn
for data analysis.
Instructor Info
Mark Fontenot, PhD.
Caruth 433
mfonten@lyle.smu.edu
markfontenot.net
Course Info
Lecture:
Tu Th 3:30 - 4:45 - Fondren 123
Where to Find Info
What
Where
Course Management
Canvas
Course Info
GitHub
Course Webpage
markfontenot.net
Catalog Description
Introduction to computer concepts, program structures, object-oriented programming, and interactive application development. Extensive programming projects emphasizing logical control structures and the use of libraries.
Prerequisite
No Pre-requisite for CS 1340
Textbooks
Required
We’ll be using ZyBooks this semester. ZyBooks is an interactive, web-based ‘textbook’. The cost of the book is $77US.
Here’s how to sign up and get access to the book:
Sign in or create an account at
learn.zybooks.com
Enter zyBook code:
SMUCS1340FontenotFall2020
Subscribe.
Optional
Eric Matthes.
Python Crash Course: A Hands-On, Project-Based Introduction to Programming,
2nd Edition
. No Starch Press, 2019, ISBN-10: 1-59327-928-0
Learning Outcomes
Understand the basic concepts of the Python Programming Language
Learn basic data structures and algorithms associated with beginning programming
Debug code
Read from and write to files
Create programs for EDA in Python.
Method of Evaluation
The final course grade in CSE 1340 will be based on the performance of various deliverables such as implementation projects and homework assignments. Additionally, your attendance and active participation in lecture and lab will be reflected in your final grade. The percentage breakdown is as follows:
Tool
Percentage
Homeworks and Quizzes
25%
Programming Projects
35%
Final Project
15%
Final Exam
15%
Attendance & Participation
10%
The Final Exam may be administered as an oral comprehensive exam that takes the form of a mock technical interview related to the course content.
The due dates for all assignments will be explicitly stated on each assignment and will be available on the course website. Final grades in this course are determined as follows:
A
94 - 100 : A
90 - 93 : A-
B
87 - 89 : B+
83 - 86 : B
80 - 82 : B-
C
77 - 79 : C+
73 - 76 : C
70 - 72 : C-
D
67 - 69 : D+
63 - 66 : D
60 - 62: D-
F
Below 60%
Homework Assignments and Quizzes
Homework assignments are assigned throughout the semester. Quizzes may be announced or unannounced.
All homework assignments will be available on the course website. Each will clearly state the due date and method of submission. Homework assignments will also include completion of various activities in ZyBooks.
Programming Projects
Nearly every week, you’ll be working on some aspect of a programming assignment in and out of your lab period. You will not be able to finish an entire assignment during lab time; if you do, you should question whether or not you actually fulfilled the requirements. Further, your lab period is not the time to start your work for the week. You should work on your assignments before lab and use lab as time to get clarifications and explanations as needed from the TAs. Each lab packet will clearly state the due dates for each of the deliverables.
Rather than penalize late submissions, you will be rewarded for early submissions. Programming projects (except for the final semester project) will be eligible for 10% extra credit for submitting the project at least 48 hours early. Recognizing that sometimes things happen at the last minute that are beyond our control, each student will get one (1) two-day (2-day) “free” extension - no questions asked. This means you can submit this one project (except for the final semester project) up to 48 hours late.
If/when you want to use your one extension, send an email to Dr. Fontenot. The email should include your:
Name,
ID Number, and
on which project you’re asking for an extension.
All projects will be reviewed, evaluated, and graded using the programming environment detailed by the course staff. Your submission must conform to the specifications in each project handout. Each submission is required to use the specified build system to compile and run your projects. The specifics for this will be covered in a separate handout.
Project submissions that do not build/compile using the above stated build system and that stated in associated course handouts including any modifications to the build system as stated in each individual project handout will receive no credit. No matter how much time you spend writing code, if it doesn’t build/compile, you will receive NO credit.
We will use GitHub throughout the semester as a code versioning and backup tool as well as the platform for final submissions. If used as instructed (and as GitHub is intended), you will always have a safe and secure backup of your source code.
Therefore, I will entertain no excuses related to computer hardware failure for not submitting projects or assignments on time.
Communication, Attendance, and Grading
Because of the nature of this class, attendance and participation in lecture and lab are very important. I ex