Dr. Mojtaba Kahrizi
Home
Teaching
ELEC 6271
Announcements
Assignments & Important Dates
Course Outline
Course Notes
Projects
Assignments
An Introduction to Nanoscience and Nanotechnology
Textbook: Course Notes will be provided
Instructor:
Dr. Mojtaba Kahrizi
Office: EV 16-185
Tel. 848-2424 (3089), Fax. 848 - 2802
e-mail:
mojtaba.kahrizi@concordia.ca
Time: Tuesdays 2:45 - 5:30 PM
ClassRoom:  FG B070
Office
Hours: By appointment
Overview
Introduction to Quantum
Nanostructures (lecture notes)
Surface Plasmonic Effects
Carbon Nanostructures
Applications
Applications(2)
Health and Safety Issues
Individuals or a group of maximum 3 students will participate in a project. The results of the projects will be presented by the student(s) at the end of the term (dates and times will be announced by the instructor)
Projects (deadline: Nov. 8, 2018)
Academic Integrity
Academic Code of Conduct
Research Ethics
Counselling & Development
Assignments consist of journal or
conference research articles published in the area of Nanoscience and
Nanotechnology.
Students (in a group of maximum 2) read the articles, analyze
and summarize each article in maximum number of pages announced in "Assignments & Important Dates" with 1.5 line space.
In their summaries, they should look
at the research work critically. In their report, they should include all
aspect of theoretical, experimental, fabrications and characterization of the
samples and/or devices reported in the article.
They are not allowed to use the abstracts of the papers to write the summaries.
The analyses and summaries MUST be
original.
If students use any other
references to support their statements, they should cite those references
properly in their summaries and if it is possible attach a copy of each one to
their assignments.
They must submit their assignments by
email to
f_kouhra@encs.concordia.ca
. No hard copy is acceptable. Put their summaries in one file. Call the
file “Assignment # -Nanotech-(students'
full name and ID numbers”).
The Deadlines to submit the assignments are strictly followed, any assignment submitted after the deadline will not be corrected and grade for that assignment will be considered zero. For more detail about individual assignments and the deadlines please see "Assignments & Important Dates"
Assignment # 5
Academic Integrity
Academic Code of Conduct
Research Ethics
Counselling & Development
Assignments & Important Dates
CONCORDIA UNIVERSITY
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL AND COMPUTER ENGINEERING
COURSE PLAN
NanoScience-NanoTechnology has become one of the most important and exciting fields in science and Engineering. It has demonstrated great promise for providing us in the future with many breakthroughs that change the direction of technological advances in a wide range of applications. It is a part of many research groups and curriculum in many universities. This course will cover an introduction but sufficiently detailed to provide a broad coverage and insight into the area.
This course will cover the fundamental principles of NanoScience and Nanotechnology. Principles of Quantum Mechanics. Quantum Properties of Solid State Materials. Properties of Metal Nanoclusters, Semiconductor nanoparticles. Molecular Clusters and Methods of Synthesis. Carbon nanostructures, nanotubes. Bulk Nanostructured Materials. Solid Disordered Nanostructures and Nanostructured crystals. Quantum Wells, Quantum Wires, and Quantum Dots and their physical properties.
Preparation of Quantum nanostructures. An introduction to NanoElectroMechanical Systems (NEMS), Nanomachining and fabrication of nanodevices.
Course Outline:
An overview
September 3.
(Course notes)
Quantum Mechanics and Quantum States in Low-Dimensional Systems..
September 10.
(Course notes)
Semiconductor Nanoparticles & nanowires.
September 17.
(Course notes)
Fabrication of Nanostructures.
September 24.
(Course notes)
Surface Plasmonic Effect & its applications.
October 1 & 8.
(Course notes)
Application of Nanostructures.
October 15.
(Course notes)
Carbon Nanostructures and Carbon Nanotubes
October 22& 29.
(Course notes)
Applications.
November 5.
(Course notes)
An Introduction to NanoElectroMechanical Systems (NEMS).
...
(Course notes)
Course Requirements and
Grading:
Assignments	 30% (For more detail, please check the link of "Assignments" on the left column)
Project		 70% (For more detail, please check the link of "Projects" on the left column)