Skip to content
Open Materials for an Introduction to Biomechanics
Main Menu
Welcome
Search
Search for:
Search
Welcome
Hello, I’m
Prof. Charlie Kemp
. This website has open course materials for
Introduction to Biomechanics
, a class I’ve taught at Georgia Tech in the
Department of Biomedical Engineering
since the spring of 2008. On this website, you can access materials from the
spring term of 2017
and the
fall term of 2022
.
BMED 3400: Intro to Biomechanics (Spring 2017)
I taught an older version of the course, BMED 3400, for thirteen terms from the spring of 2008 to the spring of 2017. It was a long iterative learning process for me as an instructor (
see chart
). I then took a leave of absence to co-found a company.
You can download materials from the Spring of 2017 using the links below.
problems with solutions
lecture notes
equation sheet
reference charts for models of axial loading, torsional loading, and bending
links to online interactive calculations using Desmos
links to editable Overleaf documents
short presentation on teaching that I gave to BME faculty
BMED 3410: Intro to Biomechanics (Fall 2022)
Now, I’m helping teach a new version of the course, BMED 3410, with
Prof. Denis Tsygankov
and
Prof. Scott Hollister
. I’ve been documenting the class below. You can also download slides, problems and other materials from the following directory.
Directory with Open Materials from BMED 3410 – Fall 2022
Table of Contents
Problem-Solving Studio 1: The Meta-Problem-Solving Studio
Lecture 1: Course Overview and Statics 1
Lecture 2: Statics 2
Problem-Solving Studio 2: Statics
Lecture 3: Model of Simple Axial Loading 1
Lecture 4: Model of Simple Axial Loading 2
Lecture 5: Model of Axial Loading 1
Lecture 6: Model of Axial Loading 2
Problem-Solving Studio 3: Axial Loading Model
Lecture 7: Model of Axial Loading 3
Lecture 8: Statically Indeterminate Systems 1
Problem-Solving Studio 4: Axial Loading Model
Lecture 9: Statically Indeterminate Systems 2
Lecture 10: Review for Exam #1
Problem-Solving Studio 5: Statically Indeterminate Systems
The End!
8/22/2022 : The Meta-Problem-Solving Studio (PSS 1)
Since we haven’t had a lecture yet, the graduate student TA (GTA) and I ran a meta-problem-solving studio (meta-PSS). The goal was to design good problem-solving studios based on the students’ prior experiences. Most of the students are in their third year of biomedical engineering (BME) at Georgia Tech, so they’ve had a variety of problem-solving studio (PSS) experiences.
The Department of Biomedical Engineering at Georgia Tech and Emory
schedules a weekly problem-solving studio (PSS) for most of its core undergraduate courses.
Prof. Joe Le Doux
developed the original problem-solving studio starting in 2008 while teaching “Conservation Principles of Biomedical Engineering” (BMED 2210) [1]. You can read about the original PSS and the thinking behind it in the following paper.
[1]
Le Doux, J. M., & Waller, A. A. (2016).
The problem-solving studio: An apprenticeship environment for aspiring engineers
. Advances in Engineering Education, 5(3), 1–27.
While generally true to the original intent, instructors run problem-solving studios with variations. The meta-PSS that the GTA and I ran was valuable because we learned about the students’ preferences from the variations they’ve experienced. The following outline describes what we did during our meta-PSS.
Meta-PSS Outline
The graduate student teaching assistant (GTA) introduced themself.
I introduced myself.
We defined the problem of designing a successful problem-solving studio (PSS) based on the students’ prior experience with PSS.
We asked students to think about the best PSS experiences they’ve had and use those to provide suggestions.
I solicited suggestions and led discussions about them.
The GTA recorded suggestions on the whiteboard.
Once there were no more suggestions, I used the list of suggestions as design specifications and began designing a prototypical PSS.
I interactively wrote a PSS schedule on the whiteboard, while soliciting feedback and further discussion, which resulted in further suggestions.
Once we had an initial design, I asked if everyone agreed with trying it out in for our second problem-solving studio with the understanding that we can iterate our PSS design throughout the term.
I then set my alarm for a10-minute break during which they talked with one another and the GTA and I talked about the class.
I then led the PSS through the syllabus using my laptop and the room’s projector while providing my personal perspectives on the content.
Problem-Solving Studio Design Criteria
The design specifications resulting from student experiences were similar to the following. I’ve used boldface for specifications that the students strongly endorsed.
It should provide opportunities for students to practice communicating the material with one another.
The problems should be clearly connected to real-world applications.
Teams should have time to work alone on the problem after it is introduced.
The GTA and instructor should go over the solution at the end of a problem.
The GTA and instructor should be available to help teams and individuals.
The PSS should start with an overview of the material at the beginning.
Students should have been provided guidance on what to know prior to the PSS.
A summary of key points should be provided at the end of the PSS.
Whether or not the PSS is open or closed note should be made clear.
Students prefer open note.
Make sure the problems involve the application of the content being learned.
Inform students about the expected difficulty of problems.
Make sure that students have familiarity with simpler problems before moving to more difficult problems.
Out of all the suggestions students made, they were most emphatic about the instructors going over a solution with the entire class at the end of a problem. They expressed that they would prioritize this over other activities, such as students presenting their s