Usable Security and Privacy (CMSC 23210 / CMSC 33210)
Spring 2019
Tuesdays & Thursdays, 11:00am - 12:20pm, Ryerson 251
Course Staff
•
Blase Ur
blase@uchicago.edu
JCL 363
By appointment
•
Weijia He
(TA)
hewj@uchicago.edu
JCL 391
By appointment
Course Description
Regardless of how secure a system is in theory, failing to consider how humans actually use the system leads to disaster in practice. This course will examine how to design for security and privacy from a user-centered perspective by combining insights from computer systems, human-computer interaction (HCI), and public policy. We will introduce core security and privacy technologies, as well as HCI techniques for conducting robust user studies. Topics will include usable authentication, user-centered web security, anonymity software, privacy notices, security warnings, and data-driven privacy tools in domains ranging from social media to the Internet of Things. Students will complete weekly problem sets, as well as conduct novel research in a group capstone project. No prior experience in security, privacy, or HCI is required.
Logistics
• Syllabus (schedule and assignments)
https://super.cs.uchicago.edu/usable19
• Piazza (announcements and discussion)
https://piazza.com/uchicago/spring2019/cmsc2321033210
• Canvas (assignment submission)
https://canvas.uchicago.edu/courses/21983
Readings and Textbooks
There is
no required textbook
for the course. Instead, all course readings will be (open access) articles linked from the schedule below. If you are interested in learning more about HCI methods, we recommend
Research Methods in Human-Computer Interaction
by Jonathan Lazar, Jinjuan Heidi Feng, Harry Hochheiser (
Older edition
/
Newer edition
).
Course Requirements and Grading
• Group project
40%
• Problem sets (5)
25%
• Final exam
15%
• Midterm exam
10%
• Quizzes
10%
CMSC 23210 vs. CMSC 33210
CMSC 33210 is a strict superset of CMSC 23210. In addition to meeting all requirements of CMSC 23210, students enrolled in CMSC 33210 will be assigned an average of one additional (more technical) reading each week. In addition, one problem set will require additional exercises. Finally, a student enrolled in CMSC 33210 must contribute non-trivial implementation of a system or software tool for their group project.
Graduate students must enroll in CMSC 33210. Undergraduates may enroll in either. The only prerequisite for either version of the course is experience with computer programming at the level of the UChicago introductory sequence (e.g., 121-122-123, 151-152-154) or equivalent.
If you are an undergraduate, please note that CMSC 23210 counts as an elective within the CS major. It does
not
count for the programming languages and systems sequence. However, CMSC 33210
may
count for the programming languages and systems sequence within the CS major, but you must file a petition for it to count in this way.
If you are a graduate student, CMSC 33210 counts as a systems elective, but
not
as a systems core course.
Problem Sets
All problem sets are due on Canvas (see above) by 10:45 AM on the due date, unless specified otherwise on the schedule. We do not accept late problem sets.
CMSC 33210 students will be asked to submit a short summary (3-7 sentences) and a "highlight" for particular readings specified in each problem set. The highlight may be something you found particularly interesting or noteworthy, a question you would like to discuss in class, a point you disagree with, etc.
Readings and Quizzes
Students are expected to complete the assigned reading prior to class so that they can participate fully in class discussions. To verify that students have completed the assigned reading, each class will begin with a short quiz. The quizzes will cover major points of the readings, including methodological techniques, findings, high-level takeaways, and major recommendations the authors made. Your three lowest quiz grades will be dropped. Because your three lowest quiz grades will be dropped, you will not be excused from quizzes if you miss class due to travel (including interviews or conferences). If you have exceptional circumstances that will cause you to miss class more than three times, please discuss this with Blase in advance.
As discussed above, CMSC 33210 students will be assigned additional readings in some weeks, though these will not be on the quizzes (and instead will be part of problem sets). Students are encouraged, but not required, to review any of the optional readings that they find interesting.
Exams
We will hold two exams during the course. The first will be an in-class midterm on May 7th, while the second will be an in-class final on May 30th. Both exams will be centered around designing experiments, interpreting results, and analyzing research claims related to usable privacy and security. In essence, performing well on these exams will require that you apply the skills you learn in this course, rather than remembering trivia. The best way to prepare for these exams is to critically read all of the assigned papers for the course and to be an engaged participant in class discussions and in-class design assignments throughout the quarter.
Project
Students will work on course projects in small groups that include students with a variety of areas of expertise. A choice of projects will be provided, and students will be given an opportunity to indicate their preferences before project groups are assigned by the instructors. Students who have their own ideas for projects should discuss them with the instructors early in the quarter. As part of the project students will:
Receive a project preference form on
Tuesday, April 9th
Sunday, April 14th.
Return their project preference form by
Thursday, April 11th
Tuesday, April 16th so that they can be assigned to a project team by
Friday, April 12th
Wednesday, April 17th.
Submit a brief project proposal (2 to 3 pages) by
Thursday, April 18th
Monday, April 22nd. The proposal should state you