CIS2166 - Mathematical Concepts in Computing II
Spring 2025
Section 701
Lecture Schedule
Instructor
Longin Jan Latecki
,
email:
latecki@temple.edu
Office: 378 SERC, phone: 215-204-5781
Class
Meets: Tuesday and Thursday 11:00-12:20 virtual
Recitation
Meets: Friday 11:00 - 12:50 in TL 302
Recitations are led by the Teaching Assistant. Attendance for the full period of each recitation is MANDATORY.
Text
Kenneth Rosen,
Discrete Mathematics and its Applications
, 8th edition eBook, McGraw Hill
Gregory Hartman,
Fundamentals of Matrix Algebra
, 3rd edition, (
a free book
)
Topics
Algorithms (Ch. 3 in Rosen book)
Mathematical Induction (Ch. 5 in Rosen book)
Graphs (Ch. 10 in Rosen book)
Matrix Algebra (Hartman book)
Matrix Algebra in Neural Networks
Google PageRank Algorithm
Course Goals and Learning Objectives
A continuation of CIS 1166. Concepts include fundamental mathematical concepts of computing: complexity of algorithms, graphs, matrix algebra, finite automata. Applications to computer science are illustrated.
At the end of this course, students will be able to express their ideas in precise English statements and in correct math formulas.
The learning objectives of this course include understanding of mathematical foundations of the following basic concepts: growth of functions, complexity of algorithms, mathematical induction and recursive definitions, graph representation, properties of graphs, algorithms on graphs, matrix algebra, systems of linear equations, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, language recognition, finite state machines, Turing machines.
Hence upon completion of this course, students will be able to:
Estimate the growth of function and classify algorithms according to complexity
Use mathematical induction and recursive definitions
Use strong and structural induction
Understand properties of graphs and algorithms on graphs
Understand connectivity of graphs
Understand Euler and Hamilton paths
Understand Dijkstra shortest path algorithm
Understand planar graphs
Determine chromatic number of graphs
Perform basic operations and properties of matrices
Solve systems of linear equations with Gaussian elimination
Compute determinants of squared matrices
Compute eigenvalues and eigenvectors
Compute forward pass in neural networks
Familiar with Google PageRank algorithm
Homework:
Late homework will receive no credit. You will be allowed to drop your lowest three homework grades.
Class attendance:
Class attendance is expected and may be recorded from time to time. Absences for legitimate professional activities and illnesses are acceptable only if prior notice is given to the instructor by e-mail or phone. Scheduling conflicts with your work, extra-curricular activities, or any other such activities is not a valid excuse. Although attendance is not a specific part of the course evaluation it has a direct effect on class participation. If you are not in class you cannot participate. Class participation means that you attend class regularly and have completed your assigned readings. It means that you ask relevant questions and make informed comments in class. Class participation will contribute to the final grade.
Quizzes:
Each week there will be one 20-25 minute quiz based on the homework assignment for the previous week. There will be no makeup quizzes; however, you will be allowed to drop your lowest three quiz grades. Each quiz will be worth 20pts. You may bring one letter size page filled with your own handwritten notes to each quiz.
Exams:
If you miss a midterm for an emergency [as agreed ahead of time with the instructor], there will be no makeup exam: the other exams will become proportionally more important. If you miss any exam without prior agreement, and without definitive proof as to the reasons, you will get a zero. If you miss the final and do not make alternative arrangements before grades are turned in you will be graded F. You may bring one letter size page filled with your own handwritten notes to each exam.
Homework and Quiz Schedule:
Due dates for homework will be posted. Graded homework will be returned and discussed during the recitation. The quiz on Friday is testing the material covered during the previous week. Thus, it coincides in the scope with the homework that was due before the previous Friday.
Honor Code
All work submitted for credit must be your own.
You may discuss the homework problems with your classmates, the teaching assistant, and the instructor. You must acknowledge the people with whom you discussed your work, and you must write up your own solutions and code. Any written sources (apart from the text) used must also be acknowledged; however, you may not consult any solutions from previous years' assignments whether they are student or faculty generated.
Plagiarism will be handled with severe measures.
Please ask if you have any questions about the Honor Code. Violations of the honor code will be treated seriously. Please check the Temple University policy on
Academic Honesty
.
Disabilities
Any student who has a need for accommodations based on the impact of a documented disability or medical condition should contact Disability Resources and Services (DRS) in 100 Ritter Annex (
drs@temple.edu
; 215-204-1280) to request accommodations and learn more about the resources available to you. If you have a DRS accommodation letter to share with me, or you would like to discuss your accommodations, please contact me as soon as practical. I will work with you and with DRS to coordinate reasonable accommodations for all students with documented disabilities. All discussions related to your accommodations will be confidential.
latecki@temple.edu