CSCE-4613/5613 Artificial Intelligence, Spring 2026
Time:
Tuesday, Thursday 12:30 p.m - 1:45 p.m
Location:
Classroom Auditorium BELL 2282 (In-person)
Instructor:
Prof. Khoa Luu
- CVIU Lab
Co-Instructor:
Dr. Thanh-Dat Truong
Office Hours:
Tuesday (lectures), Thursday (grading/exams) 11 a.m - noon, MS Team or In-person
Course Description
The goals of the course are to provide the students with the foundation and the techniques underlying the design of an intelligent computer system. The statistical and decision-theoretic modeling paradigms and their applications will be covered in this course. The techniques students learn in this course apply to a wide variety of artificial intelligence problems and will serve as the foundation for further study in any application area they choose to purse.
Prerequisites
Prerequisite: CSCE 3193 or CSCE 3193H or DASC 2103
This course requires familarity with linear algebra, calculus, and programming.
Programming Language: students will use Python for their assignments and projects.
Course Mode of Delivery
The course delivery mode will be face-to-face. While some asynchronous delivery may be involved, the bulk of content is delivered face-to-face during the regularly scheduled class time.
Attendance Policy
The University of Arkansas will primarily offer in-person instruction in the 2025-2026 academic year. Most of the university's academic programs have essential in-person components. Class attendance is the responsibility of each student and expected. If you are absent, it is your responsibility to obtain assignments, notes, and any class information given.
If you must quarantine, self-isolate, or miss class during the semester because of COVID-19 or other illness, please contact the instructor via email and do not come to class
. Class information will be provided to students who must miss class due to COVID-19 or other excused absences on a short-term basis. Contact the Center for Education Access (CEA) to determine if you think that you have a disability that permits you from participating in person.
Office Hours
Office hours will be primarily virtual using Teams or walk-ins during posted office hours. Students are encouraged to schedule as well as check my online calendar.
Vaccinations
The UA strongly encourages everyone who is eligible and able, to become fully vaccinated. A
vaccination incentive program has been implemented on the Fayetteville campus. The vaccine
incentive effort is completely voluntary. Those who wish to participate enter for a chance to win
items during weekly drawings. We fully understand that there are students who do not wish to
receive a vaccination at this time, can't receive a vaccination for medical or other reasons, and
others who simply do not want to participate. While state law prohibits requiring it,
COVID-19
vaccination is encouraged
as our primary means of mitigating the spread of the virus. Those
who receive vaccination protect themselves from serious illness, hospitalization, and in some
cases even death, while protecting those around them, supporting our plans to have a more
traditional in-person spring semester and hopefully avoid interruptions in the school year.
Changes to the Syllabus
The standards and requirements set forth in this syllabus may be modified at any time by the course instructor. Notice of such changes will be by announcement in class or by changes to this syllabus posted in Blackboard.
AI Applications for COVID-19 Pandemic and recent Technologies
Introducing ChatGPT
How Microsoft Is Using AI to Find Covid-19 Antibodies
Amazon is Using AI in Almost Everything It Does
Introducing Waymo One
Topics Covered
1. Introduction to AI
2. Search and Heuristics
3. Satisfiability
4. Deterministic/symbolic reasoning
5. Knowledge representation
6. Probabilistic reasoning
7. Sequential Decision Making
8. Neural Networks
9. Deep Learing Basics
10. A.I Applications
Textbook
Readings will be assigned from the following textbooks:
Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach
, Third Edition, Pearson Publisher, 2010, by Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig.
Deep Learning with Pytorch
, First Edition, 2020, by Eli Stevens, Luca Antiga and Thomas Viehmann (Free Online).
Relevant research papers will be introduced in each lecture. Students are highly recommended to read the textbooks and the assigned research papers.
The following materials can also be useful references but are not required:
The Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence
AI Magazine
Grading
Your final grade will be made up from:
Participation: 5%
Homework: 50%
Midterm Exam: 25%
Final Exam: 20%
Final Project: 2% (Bonus)
Late days:
Students are allowed FIVE free late days in total. Any additional late days will each incur a 10% penalty.
Reports:
Students are encouraged using
AAAI template (Latex)
in their reports
Discussion
TBA.
Related Conf. and Journals
AAAI Conference
Conf. on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)
Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems
Syllabus and Schedule
Material slides will be uploaded on this homepage after each lecture. The syllabus may likely change during the semester.
Date
Topics
Slides
Book Chapters/Papers
Tue, Jan. 13
Class Overview
Syllabus
,
Class Overview
Reading: Eli Stevens et al., Chapters 1 & 2
Thu, Jan. 15
Introduction
Introduction
Reading: Russell & Norvig, Chapters 3.1-3.4
Tue, Jan. 20
Homework 1
Homework 1
Tue, Jan. 20
BFS, DFS Review
BFS, DFS Review
Tue, Jan. 20
BFS, DFS Review
BFS, DFS Review
Tue, Jan. 20
Informed Search
UCS, Greedy BFS, A-Search
Reading: Russell & Norvig, Chapter 5
Thu, Jan. 22
Homework 1 Review
Homework 1 Review
HW1 - FAQ
(Students ask questions here)
Thu, Jan. 29
Python Overview
Python, Numpy, Colab
Reading:
Eli Stevens et al., Chapters 3 & 5
Sample Colab Code
Tue, Feb. 3
Homework 2
Homework 2
Due: Feb. 17
Tue, Feb. 3
Informed Search
A-Search, A*-Search
Reading: Russell & Norvig, Chapter 6
Thu, Feb. 5
CSPs
Constraint Satisfaction Problems
Reading: Russell & Norv