MET CS 566 Analysis of Algorithms
Course Calendar
Homework
courseinfo
Course Objectives
Algorithms are the soul of computing. Algorithmic thinking,
unlike the very young electronic machinery it brings alive, is rooted in
ancient mathematics. It can be roughly described as creating
"recipes"
(well defined sequences of computational steps) for getting
"things"
(computational problems specifying an input-output relation)
"successfully"
(correctly)
"done"
(in finite steps and time). Algorithm
design and analysis provide the theoretical backbone of computer science and
are a must in the daily work of the successful programmer. The goal of this
course is to provide a solid background in the design and analysis of the major
classes of algorithms. At the end of the course students will be able to
develop their own versions for a given computational task and to compare and
contrast their performance.
Course Overview
This course introduces basic methods for the design and
analysis of efficient algorithms emphasizing methods useful in practice.
Different algorithms for a given computational task are presented and their
relative merits evaluated based on performance measures. The following
important computational problems will be discussed: sorting, searching,
elements of dynamic programming and greedy algorithms, advanced data
structures, graph algorithms (shortest path, spanning trees, tree traversals),
string matching, elements of computational geometry, NP completeness.
Prerequisites
MET CS 248 Discrete Mathematics, MET CS 341 Data Structures
with Java, or MET CS 342 Data Structures with C++.
Course Format and Grading Policy
New material will be presented in lecture format. Reviews,
exercises and homework solutions will take place in discussion. Participation
in the discussions, although not mandatory, is strongly recommended and may
result in extra credit.
Weekly mandatory homework, a midterm and a final examination will
provide the basis for the grade. Homework is due one week after assigned. Late
homework will not be accepted unless permission by the instructor was given
prior
to the due date.
No predetermined scale will be used. The final grade will be assigned
based on the following weighting
Homework 40%
Midterm 30%
Final 30%
Cheating and plagiarism will not be tolerated. They will
result in no credit for the homework or examination. This should not be
understood as a discouragement for discussing the material or your particular
approach to a problem with other students in the class. On the contrary - I
urge you to share your thoughts, questions and solutions. Naturally, if you
choose to work in a group, I will be expecting more than one and highly
original solutions rather than the same mistakes.
Texts
T. H. Cormen, C. E. Leiserson, R. L. Rivest.
Introduction
to Algorithms
The MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 2d edition.
(required).
Parberry.
Problems on Algorithms
Prentice
Hall, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey 07632, 1995. (recommended). Available as
free download at
http://hercule.csci.unt.edu/ian/books/poa.html
Course Information
Time: Monday, Wednesday,
6:00-9:30 p.m.
Place: CGS 115
Instructor: Tanya Zlateva,
Ph.D., Assoc. Prof.
Office Hours: Monday,
Wednesday 5:00-5:50 p.m.
Office Address: 808
Commonwealth Avenue, Room 254, Boston, MA 02215.
Telephone: 617-353-2568
E-mail: zlateva@bu.edu
web:http://metcs.bu.edu/~zlateva/
Fax: 617-353-2367
Metropolitan College Statement on Communication Skills
Metropolitan College students, in addition to achieving
mastery of subject matter and professional terminology, must be proficient in
written and spoken English in order to achieve success in their academic
studies and professional careers.
Please be advised that papers and oral presentations that do not meet
the high normative standards of university education will be downgraded or
returned for revision.
Help is available at every stage of the writing process and
with oral communication and presentations. Please ask your instructor, academic
advisor or check the MET website
www.bu.edu/met/students
.
Also, please also see the Student Code of Conduct
www.bu.edu/met/students/conduct_code.html
Page prepared by
Tanya Zlateva