ASTR 1000
Overview
Materials
Academic Honesty
Contact
ASTR 1000: Survey of Astronomy  (Spring 2022)
This is a Fully Asynchronous Course
(See course
schedule
)
Instructor:
Zach Meisel (email: meisel@ohio.edu)
Office Hours:
Video call by appoinment. Email anytime.
Midterm Exam:
None
Final Exam:
Homework to be completed the week of April 25th
Course Overview
The purpose of this course is to get an overview of major topics in astronomy. This class is fully asynchronous. This means there will be no scheduled lecture times. Students will be expected to
watch the pre-recorded video lectures (links in the
schedule
)
at their convenience, but prior to the deadline for the associated homework assignment. Similarly, regular readings will be assigned. The (free) course textbook is
Astronomy from OpenStax
. An alternative download link and supplementary resources for students from OpenStax are available
here
.
Homework will be weekly, due by 11:59pm on Friday, to be completed in TopHat. The
TopHat
course name is "ASTR 1000: Survey of Astronomy (Spring 2022)" and the Join Code is 556789
.
Course information (other than homework), such as lectures and supplementary material will be
posted here. Check back regularly throughout the semester. Relevant video lectures for a given homework assignment will always be posted at least one week before the homework assignment is due.
The course catalog description for ASTR 1000 can be accessed
here
.
Course Materials
Syllabus
Course Schedule and  Lectures
(this is where the video lecture links and lecture slides are)
Homework:
The
TopHat
course name is "ASTR 1000: Survey of Astronomy (Spring 2022)" and the Join Code is 556789.
Textbook:
The open-access course textbook is
Astronomy from OpenStax
. An html format and supplementary resources for students from OpenStax are available
here
.
Welcome Email (7 January 2022)
Academic Honesty
This goes without saying … but I'll say it anyways: you are expected to act in an academically
honest fashion. This means abiding by the
Ohio University Honor Code
and adhering to the
Code of Conduct
.
If you have any concerns as to what does or does not constitute academic dishonesty, please don't
hesitate to ask me.