CS519: Selected Topics in CS
CS519: Research Methods in Computer Science
How do you choose a research project?  How do you write a thesis
proposal or an NSF proposal?  What research methods can be employed to
carry out the research?  How should the research be written up and
presented?  This course is intended to answer these questions by
giving students practice and experience with these tasks.  The course
will present a model of the "research lifecycle" that provides an
organizing framework for research problems and research methods.
Students will practice critical reading and writing of research
papers.  Students will also write and review research proposals.
This course is highly recommended for PhD students who are preparing
their dissertation proposals, but anyone interested in a research
career is encouraged to enroll.
Prerequisite: Graduate standing in Computer Science.
CS519 newsgroup.
Important announcements concerning assignments, due dates, etc. are
posted to the
orst.cs.519
newsgroup.
Syllabus.
Part 1: The research life cycle (postscript slides).
Possible papers for "Assessment Reports" in Concept Learning:
L. Breiman (1996)  Bagging Predictors.
Yoav Freund and Robert E. Schapire. (1996).
Experiments with a new boosting algorithm.
In Machine Learning: Proceedings of the Thirteenth International Conference, 1996.
Ross Quinlan. (1996). "Boosting, Bagging, and C4.5.
Proceedings of AAAI, 1996.
Part 2: Research Methods (postscript slides).
This
concentrates primarily on relevant statistical methods.
Files for the data analysis assignment:
p1
p2
p5
p6
Part 3: Professional Career Issues (postscript slides).
Writing and reviewing grant proposals, giving talks, ethical
issues.
Dietterich's rules of English.
Marie des Jardins' paper on How to be a Good Grad Student/Advisor.
What Every New Grad Student Should Know" and other useful information
at Indiana University.
CS Graduate
School information
at UMBC.
Disclaimer:
The original material referred to on this page is
Copyright (C) 1996 by Thomas G.  Dietterich.  All rights are reserved.
Please contact me for permission to use these materials in a class.
Tom Dietterich
, tgd@cs.orst.edu