COMP 599-02 Topics in AI for Robotics and Intelligent Systems
Overview
This new course explores selected topics at the intersection of AI and  Robotics, and especially intelligent
exploration and information acquisition, and how large langaige models (AKA foundation models) can be used to make
robotics more flexible and effective.  The course does nto presume the student has substantial exposure to robotics, but a
comfort with basic AI-relevant algorthms (such as A-star search) is expected.  About half the course will be deveoted to
tarntional lecture-style presentations, and about half will be devoted to the discussion of recent papers
from the research literature.  Due to the seminar-style format, student involvement will be important and for students
who are uncomforatble speaking up some coaching will be included.
Since this course is open to both undergraduate and graduate students,
some key aspects of course structure will only be finalized during the first week when the class composition can be observed.
Lecture location: McConnell Engineeing MC103, Moday and Wednesday 10:00-11:30am
Teaching Staff
Instructor: Professor Gregory Dudek (gregory.dudek@mcgill.ca)
MC103
Office Hours: Monday/Wednesday 11:30-12:30 (not offered on days when there is a guest lecturer)
Teaching Assistant(s): TDB
Office Hours and location: TBD.
Zoom link
http://mcgill.zoom.us/my/gdudek
by arrangement
Textbook
The primary textbook is
Computational Principles of Mobile Robotics
3rd edition, by Dudek and Jenkin. Cambridge University Press, 2024.
Note we will be using the third edition, which is longer and more timely than the older second (or first) edition.
Available at
Amazon.ca
or
Indigo online
Selected readings from the research literature.
Supplementary materials (these excellent books may not get used in this course)
Planning Algorithms, by Steven Lavalle, Cambridge University Press, 2006.
Robotics, Vision, and Control, by Corke
Refresher
notes on probabiity and stats
(from Stanford undergrad TAs)
Build LLM Applications
a very pragmatic guide to using LLMs (only tangentially related to this course).
A nice
book on robotic manipulation
from the most-excellent Russ Tedrake at MIT.
Great book covering the mehcnical side, such as dynamics:
Introduction to Robotics: Mechanics and Control, by Craig
The handbook of robotics
from Springer
Detailed Lecture Schedule
To be finalized after the first lecture and before the end of the first week.
The following table is incomplete and not finalized.
#
Date
Lecture
Topics
Suplements
References
Slides
Introduction
Motivation, logistics, scope of the field and the course, sense-plan-act paradigm.
Dudek & Jenkin Ch. 1
Aggressive UAV flight
Examples of manipulators from
Tedrake book
Slides:
Intro (part 1 of 2)
[history] (part 2 of 2)
The diversity of robotics and how LLMs change the game
Hard and easy problems in robotics. Analytic and ML based alternatives.
Dudek & Jenkin Ch. 1
Aggressive UAV flight
Examples of manipulators from
Tedrake book
Intro to Planning
Properties, definitions, deterministic methods.
Planning part 1
and
Probabilistic planning and RRT
Planning 2
Planning algorithms and procedures.
Lavalle Ch. 4
Dudek & Jenkin Ch. 6
Planning part 1
and
Probabilistic planning and RRT
Configuration space and topology
Nature and topology of C-space classes
Configuration space and topology (2)
Homotopy classes and compleity
Report from marine (sea) trials. Introduction to classical robot control
State space, PID control and Kalman filters
Deep learning and transformers.
Chris Manning on Backprop and Neural Networks
Backprop and Neural Networks
How to fine-tune a pretrained model
Large Language Models meet robotics
Introduction to foundation models. Also: how to give presentations.
Reinforcement learning 1
Chapter from Jurafsky on Markov models
Reinforcement learning 2
Student presentations and paper discussions, group 1.
Student presentations and paper discussions, group 1.
Student presentations and paper discussions, group 1.
Multi-modality in foundation models.
Introduction to classical robot control part 2
State space, PID control and Kalman filters
Mid-term exam
Student presentations and paper discussions, group 2.
Student presentations and paper discussions.
Student presentations and paper discussions.
Student presentations and paper discussions.
Student presentations and paper discussions.
Student presentations and paper discussions.
Deployent on physical robots.  Ethical issues. New developments in the field.
Final project presentations
Course recap and conclusion
Assignments and course evaulation(s)
To be finalized after the first lecture and before the end of the first week.
The tentative plans is as follows:
Two assignments.
Course Project.
Possible final exam (potentially an oral exam, pending discussion during lecture one
Syllabus for Fall 2023
Note that the lecture timing and sequence may drift slightly as the terms progresses as a function of student interests,
emerging issues and other factors.
Discussion papers
Group 1 papers
A group of papers on interesting and influantial aspects of robot activity modulation from a pragmatic point of view.
Edwin first
Task Planning for Long-Horizon Cooking Tasks Based on Large Language Models
web link, may require McGill VPN
Quinn Cao (Feb 19)
ChatGPT for Robotics: Design Principles and Model Abilities
web link
PhotoBot: Reference-Guided Interactive Photography via Natural Language
web link
Novak Feb 19
ANSEL Photobot: A Robot Event Photographer with Semantic Intelligence
web link
Emma
ChatMap: A Wearable Platform Based on the Multi-modal Foundation Model to Augment Spatial Cognition for People with Blindness and Low Vision
web link, may require McGill VPN
SocialED: A Python Library for Social Event Detection
web link
Adam
Alfred and Alfworld
Alfred came first"
and
Alfword
builds on it.
Habitat 3.0: A Co-Habitat for Humans, Avatars and Robots
web link
Group 2 papers
A broad group of cool and exciting papers.
Reinforcement l