T-Th 9:05
or
T-Th 11:15
in Olin 155
CS 1110: Introduction to Computing Using Python
Spring 2016
Main
(image source)
About:
Announcements
Staff
Times & Places
Calendar
Materials:
Texts/Clickers
Python/Komodo
Command Shell
Terminology
VideoNote
Learning:
Lectures
Assignments
Labs
Assessment:
Grading
Exams
Resources:
CMS
Piazza
AEWs
FAQ
Python reference
Python Tutor
Alternative classes
Style Guide
Academic Integrity
The Lectures
The "Handout" link connects to a printer friendly pdf of the lecture slides.
There are 6 slides per page and you may find it handy to bring a copy to class for note taking.
The "Slides" link will give you a pdf with one slide per page. It is sometimes the
case that we do not get through all the slides in lecture. Nevertheless, you are responsible for their
content.
Get all the lecture slides and handouts for the entire semester in one (24mb) download:
AllTheLectures.zip.
The "Python Demos" are .py modules that relate to the lecture material.
Many of these demos figure in the Lab exercises. Regardless,
you are expected to download, run, and understand these programs.
A compact schedule for the whole semester showing lectures, labs, readings,
due dates and prelim dates is available
here
.
Week 1
28 January (Thursday):
1. The Assignment Statement and Types
Python Demos
Read All About It!
Course Overview
Handout
Slides
We start out using Python as a calculator in what is called the interactive mode. The idea of a variable is
introduced and the dynamics of the assignment statement are detailed. Three basic types are illustrated
through examples: integers, floats, and strings.
Week 2
2 February (Tuesday):
2. Modules and Scripts
Python Demos
2.Demos.zip
Read All About It!
Handout
Slides
A module is a .py file that contains Python code. The easiest kind of module to understand simply houses a
sequence of statements called a script. Sample scripts that involve numbers and strings are used to solidify our
understanding of the assignment statement and types. Code in one module can ''import'' code from another.
Mechanisms for input and output are discussed.
4 February (Thursday):
3. Conditional Execution
Python Demos
Abbreviator.py
Hyphenator.py
PiAppx.py
Read All About It!
Handout
Slides
README!
Sometimes a condition has to be checked before heading into a computation and for that we need various
''if-else'' constructions. The Boolean type is introduced together with three logical operators: and, or, not.
We will see a distinction between program structure and program flow.
Week 3
9 February (Tuesday):
4. Modules and Functions
Python Demos
SimpleMath.py
ShowSimpleMath.py
Read All About It!
Handout
Slides
ReadMe!
Modules can also house functions. Functions are packagings of important calculations that are typically used
over and over again. Experts design useful modules that can then be shared within the Python community. We
show how to import and use certain functions from the math module. A sample module is used to show
how to design your own functions. We with start simple examples that look like high school algebra math
functions. A function is built to compute square roots. The building process will highlight the connections between
algorithmic thinking and program implementation.
11 February (Thursday):
5. Introduction to Procedures Through Graphics
Python Demos
5.Demos.zip
Read All About It!
Handout
Slides
We get more practice with functions by using a module that supports the drawing rectangles, circles, and other
geometric shapes. These functions have multiple inputs and they do not return values like the square root function. We
show how one function can call another function, how optional arguments work, and how ease-of-use can
affect the design of a function inputs.
Week 4
18 February (Thursday):
6. How Modules and Functions Work
Python Demos
Read All About It!
Handout
Lectures
We use examples to lock in our understanding of how functions work. Topics include call frames, tracing
execution, arguments, parameters, and local variables.  Regarding the use of modules we discuss the logic behind
the import command, global variables, and the ''dot'' notation.
Week 5
23 February (Tuesday):
7. String Methods
Python Demos
DateFormat.py
Emphasizer.py
VowelFraction.py
Read All About It!
Handout
Slides
In object-oriented programming, functions and the data that they manipulate are packaged in classes. We
become acquainted with this idea by practicing with the built-in string class. In this context, the functions are
referred to as methods. We get practice with various string methods such as count, find, and replace. The ''in''
operator is introduced and we uplift our ability to ''think Boolean'' by practicing with various Boolean-valued
methods that relate to strings.
25 February (Thursday):
8. Iteration with Strings
Python Demos
ShowForString.py
9ADemos.zip
Read All About It!
Handout
Slides
HandoutA
SlidesA
Iteration is all about the idea of repeated calculation and it is an absolutely essential part of the course. We show
how for-loops can be used to ''walk down a string'' processing each character in turn. With this capability we can
solve problems that would otherwise be out of our reach. For example, we need the loop construction if we are to
count the number of digits in a given string or if we are to reverse the order of its characters.
Week 6
1 March (Tuesday):
9. Iteration Using the range Function
Python Demos
9ADemos.zip
9BDemos.zip
Read All About It!
HandoutA
SlidesA
HandoutB
SlidesB
We revisit the sqrt function and use a  for loop to handle the rectangle averagings. We show how to draw an n
by-n checkerboard. Summation problems and find-the-min problems provide instructive examples. We introduce
the random module and use some of its functions to execute interesting simulations that involve  random events.
Estimating probabilities and averages is very important and we provide a snapshot of how this is done.
3 March (Thursday):
10. While Loops and Random Walks
Python