CSCE 390:  Professional Issues in Computer Science and Engineering
(Fall 2023)
Syllabus
(Updated 2023-08-24 with correct classroom address. Updated 2023-10-22 with
TA contact information.)
Notes
These notes will be updated during the course of the semester.
What Is
Computer Ethics? A Review of Definitions
, used on 2020-08-27 and 2020-09-01.
Philosophical Belief Systems, Part I:
Idealism and Realism
Presentation by Mr. Nick Paschvoss and Ms. Brie Panaherrera of the UofSC Career Center
, used
on 2022-09-13 and 2022-09-15.
Schema for an "elevator pitch" from Mr. Paschvoss.
Presentation by Ms. Vicky Hamby of the UofSC Career Center
, used
on 2021-09-02 and 2021-09-07.
Video recording
of Ms. Hamby's presentation of 2021-09-02
.
Presentation by Ms. Taryn Asbury of the UofSC Career Center
, used
on 2020-09-03 and 2020-09-08.
Presentation
by Ms. Christine Mosich of the CEC Satellite Office of the USC Career Center.
Presentation
by Ms. Emma Waugh of the CEC Satellite Office of the USC
Career Center
, used on 2016-09-08.
Presentation
by Ms. Helen Powers of the CEC Satellite Office of the USC
Career Center
, used on 2015-09-10.
Presentation
by Dr. Duncan Buell of UofSC
, used on 2019-09-26.
Philosophical Belief Systems, Part II:
Pragmatism and Existentialism
Three Simple Ethical Cases:
Absolutist and Relativist Positions
The Ethical Decision-Making Process
Legal and Ethical Issues in
Computer Security, presentation by Dr. Csilla Farkas
, used on 2015-11-17
Psychology and Computer Ethics
The Computing Field as a Profession
Computer-Related Codes of Ethics
Four Cases by Robert Barger
Slides
and
video
for the Dr. Biplav Srivastava's lecture on
Trust and Accountability of AI Systems of 2020-11-05.
Overview of Research at CEC by Dr. Paul Ziehl
(November 2021).
Four Cases by Robert Barger
Homework
Here is a
writing rubric
written by
Dr. Heidi Cooley in the Media Arts program. (Thanks to Prof. Buell for passing
it on.)  I am not bound by this rubric, but it may be useful for you to
consider when writing your essays.
Points per assignment.
See the lecture log for possible additional assignments.
See the syllabus for formatting requirements.
See the lecture log and the departmental dropbox for due dates and special
requirements.
Homework assignments are sometimes modified with respect to the
ones in the pdf version of the syllabus.
(HW1)
Read [M85]. (See the syllabus for reference; the paper is linked in the useful links section.)
Answer the following four questions.
Your essay, in total, must be no longer than two pages.
Please type the questions as well as your answers. All questions must be answered.
List the three events in the history of computing that you consider most important.
Provide an example of an action that is legal but unethical and
of an action that is illegal but ethical. Justify your answer.
According to James Moor, what are the two phases of the "Computer Revolution"?
Provide an example of a new (or substantially different) ethical dilemma
that was raised by computers or computing. Justify your answer.
(HW2)
Choose a company where you would like to apply for a position. Write:
A one-page overview of the company
A one-page overview of the position that you would apply for
A one-page resume (possibly, geared towards that position)
A half-page essay on what you need to learn or do to be competitive for the position
Attend the STEM Job and Internship Fair on September 27 or 28
after registering via Handshake
and
write a half-page essay describing your experience
Complete your Handshake profike at the USC Career Center. Write a
statement that you did this on the first page of your homework
submission document.
The whole submission consists of four pages.
If you cannot attend the career fair because of a class conflict, you must:
Do all parts of the assignment except for part (5)
Attach a copy of your weekly class schedule for the week of September 25;
this should show that you could not reasonably attend the STEM Majors
Career Fair
Do one of the following:
Write a half-page essay describing your experience at another career fair
Attend an activity sponsored by the career center, such as a resume-writing
workshop, and write a half-page essay about it
Attend an activity sponsored by a professional society in computing and
write a half-page essay about it.
(HW3)
Argue for or or against the following statement: "The computer is just another tool, and computer ethics is
just a branch of applied ethics."  Justify your answer.  Refer to James Moor's work on this subject
([M85], [M99], [M04]).  Keep your answer to at most one page.
(HW4)
Do you think that one philosophy is better than another?  Explain.
Choose one of the four philosophical belief systems that we discussed in class (idealism,
realism, pragmatism, and existentialism). Summarize the key features of its metaphysics and ethics in
your own words.
Use at least [B93] as a reference.
Keep your answer to at most two pages.
(HW5)
Analyze the False Images in Broadcast Case using the 8-step Ethical Decision Making Process by
Robert Barger.
The case is summarized in slides 14-17 of the set used in class to describe that process/framework.
The slides are available on the main course website at "The Ethical Decision-Making Process."
The _New York Times_ article that is the source of the case is available on the main course
website under "Some Useful Links."  Write 1-2 pages.
(Make sure to use the correct process!)
(HW6) Choose a topic of professional interest that includes a
non-trivial ethical issue from
ACM TechNews archives
.
Prepare a 6-slide
PowerPoint presentation (in pptx format; a few more slides
are acceptable) in which
(1) you summarize the topic (appropriate references should be on the
title slide; see below),
(2) you apply the 8-step Ethical Decision Making Process by Robert Barger (see
HW5)
to the ethical dilemma, and (3) you apply the ACM Code to it.
You also need a title slide with your name, the title of your presentation,
and refer