MATH 304-2 Fall 2024 SYLLABUS for Prof. Feingold's Section 2
Contact Information
My office is Room 115 in Whitney Hall. My office hours will be MWF 2:20 - 3:20 and by appointment.
To arrange for an office hour appointment,
send an email at least 2 hours ahead of time to my email address:
feingold@binghamton.edu
Class meeting information
All class meetings will all be held in person in Whitney Hall, Room G002.
Section 2 is scheduled for MWF 9:40 - 11:10 AM, from August 21 through December 4, 2024.
Textbook
The textbook for this course is below.
Other references which can be helpful are listed on the main Math 304 webpage, but the lectures in my
section will come from my own notes which are available as pdf files below.
Linear Algebra and Its Applications, 6/e, by Lay/McDonald, Pearson+ etext
Homework assignments will come from the textbook, as described on the main Math 304 webpage.
All the material in my notes, and in the textbook will be covered if time permits.
A list of major topics which should be covered is given at the end of this page.
Exams, Quizzes and Point Values
The six sections of this course will be run separately by each instructor.
This page contains details relevant only to my Section 2, but some
general advice probably applies to everyone.
There will be ten quizzes administered in class for 15% of your course grade. Homework done and evaluated
through an online system will count for 10% of your course grade.
Three 90-minute exams will be administered on announced dates during a normal class time.
There will be one Final Exam (2 hours long) during the scheduled Finals period.
Each 90-minute exam will be worth 15%, and
the Final Exam will be worth 30%. The material being tested in each
exam will be determined and announced approximately one week before the exam. The Final Exam will be
comprehensive, covering the whole course. ANYONE WITH A SCHEDULING CONFLICT AFFECTING THE FINAL EXAM
MUST CONTACT THE INSTRUCTOR AHEAD OF TIME TO ARRANGE FOR AN ALTERNATIVE TIME.
A MESSAGE CAN BE LEFT AT THE MATH DEPT OFFICE (777-2147).
NO ONE SHOULD MISS THE FINAL!
Information about the general scheduling of exams is posted on the main Math 304 page, but detailed
information for this section will be posted here. These dates are approximate and subject to adjustment.
Exam 1 for Section 2 will be on September 20, 2024.
Exam 2 for Section 2 will be on October 25, 2024.
Exam 3 for Section 2 will be on November 22, 2024.
Final Exam for all sections will be on Monday, December 9, 2024, 10:25 am - 12:25 pm, in LH-001.
Final Exam for students with accommodations will be on
in the University Testing Center (UTC).
All students who are not in quarantine because of covid or other serious illness are
expected to take the exam in person during the scheduled class time. Students with an accommodation
for extra time must talk to Prof. Feingold ahead of time to make an arrangement.
After each Exam is graded and returned, solutions will be posted below,
along with a letter grade interpretation of the numerical score.
Any student with a special problem or a
finals conflict must contact the instructor (me) as soon as possible to make arrangements.
Practice problems of various kinds may be posted here or on the main Math 304 webpage.
It is hoped that classes and exams will be held in-person, with whatever precautions are required
due to COVID. Properly worn masks will probably not be required in Fall 2024. A student may test
positive for COVID and have to be under quarantine, or a student may be too  ill to take an exam or quiz
(the flu is still a threat). To deal with those situations, I will make use of Gradescope so that students
with a valid medical excuse can take a quiz online remotely, but not exams. That method of testing is not as
secure as an in-person exam, so I have to rely on your honesty not to cheat in that situation. If I find
that any cheating has occured, the penalty will be severe. Information about how to use Gradescope is
in the next section.
In case the university administration cancels classes because of a snow emergency, we can still have
a virtual class meeting on zoom. Panopto recordings of lectures from a previous semester are already available
with the posted lecture notes, but if we have a class meeting on zoom, it will be recorded and a link made
available on this webpage. Since snow cancelations are rare, I will not set up a recurring zoom meeting for
this class, but I will only do one at a time if needed. An email announcing each zoom meeting would be sent
in the morning including a link to the meeting.
Quizzes and their solutions
Quizzes and their solutions will be posted here after they are given and graded.
Here is a link to
Math 304-2 Quiz 1 and its Solutions.
Here is a link to
Math 304-2 Quiz 2 and its Solutions.
Here is a link to
Math 304-2 Quiz 3 and its Solutions.
Here is a link to
Math 304-2 Quiz 4 and its Solutions.
Here is a link to
Math 304-2 Quiz 5 and its Solutions.
Here is a link to
Math 304-2 Quiz 6 and its Solutions.
Here is a link to
Math 304-2 Quiz 7 and its Solutions.
Here is a link to
Math 304-2 Quiz 8 and its Solutions.
Here is a link to
Math 304-2 Quiz 9 and its Solutions.
Here is a link to
Math 304-2 Quiz 10 and its Solutions.
Here is a link to
Math 304-2 Quiz Totals and Letter Grade Interpretation.
Information About Document Submission Through Gradescope
Students who are unable to attend class in-person for exams or quizzes should
find the exam or quiz on Gradescope, take it within the time limit, and submit the solutions
as a single electronic pdf file.
I highly recommend using CamScanner for this purpose. It is available from this website:
CamScanner Website.
All submitted documents should be sent to me using Gradescope according to the directions in
the following file:
Gradescope Submitting Guide.
Here is the webpage for direct access to Gradescope:
Gradescope login page.
Links to Prof. Feingold's Math 304-6 lectures from Spring 2021 recorded on Panopt