CS2316
Calendar
Syllabus
Homework
Syllabus
COURSE INFO
Lecturer: Monica Sweat
Email: sweat [at] cc.gatech.edu
Office:
GTL
215
Office Hours:
TBA
...or by appointment.
Why Python?
Course Objectives
Students will be able to program Python programs using subset of data types and using assignment, method calls, while loops, for loops, and conditionals.
Students will learn how to use and manipulate several core data
structures: Lists, Dictionaries, Tuples, and Strings.
Students will be able to construct simple graphical user interfaces that drive their programs.
Students will understand the process and skills necessary to effectively deal with problem solving in relation to writing programs.
Students will be able to test and debug programs.
Students will understand and employ objects, functions and modularity.
Students will be able to read  and write data to and from text and formatted text files such as Comman Seprated Value (CSV) files and eXtensible Markup Language (XML) files.
Student programs will be able to interact with websites and load data from them (web scraping).
Student programs will be able to read and write data to/from SQL databases.
Students will be able to manipulate data from one format into another.
Lecture
Lecture: Days Vary :: 10:30am - 11:30am  :: GTL
Course Materials
Required Text:
How to Think Like a Computer Scientist: Learning with Python (3nd edition) by: Peter Wentworth Jeffrey Elkner, Allen B. Downey, and Chris Meyers.  Free Online Version:
Open Book Project
Required Text:
Dive into Python 3 by Mark Pilgrim. Free online version:
DiveIntoPython3.org
ISBN:
978-1430224150
Optional (But highly Recommended) Reference Text:
Programming in Python 3 2nd ed (PIP3) : Mark Summerfield - Addison Wesley ISBN: 0-321-68056-1
Software:
Python (version 3.4.1)
http://www.python.org
(If you run on Mac OS X,
you will need ActiveTcl as well - read this
)
Pymysql for Python3
LETTER GRADES
Letter grade assignments are given according to the following cutoffs
with no rounding:
90.00 <= A <= 100
80.00 <= B < 90.00
70.00 <= C < 80.00
70.00 and above for a Satisfactory (S/U Scale)
60.00 <= D < 70.00
0 <= F < 60.00
Grading Policies
There is no curve in this course.  The grading breakdown is as follows:
Homeworks: 20%
Attendance & Participation: 5%
Exam Total: 75%
Regular Exams: 4 x 15% = 60%
Final Exam: 15%
Exam Replacement Policy
You will have 4 exams over the course of the semester followed by a
final exam. Each exam score will be recorded in the gradebook as a
percentage (0-100). At the end of the semester, your 2nd lowest score
from these  exams will be used to replace your lowest score.
This means that if you receive (for example) 100, 90,70,60 on your first
four exams, you could skip the final exam (receiving a zero) and your
60 (2nd lowest score) would replace the zero on the final exam.
As another example, if you received a 65, 70, 75, 79 on the
first four exams, and received an 80 on the final, the 70 (2nd lowest
score) would replace your first score of 65.
If you scored 60, 60, 75, 79, and 85 the 60 would replace the other 60,
causing no change.
Attendance & Participation:
Various classes and recitations will have small assignments due in class. These
may be submitted via paper, T-Square, or some other means.  The majority of your Attendance & Participation score will be derived from these assignments, which can not be "made-up" if you do not attend the class. It is a violation of the Academic Honor Code to submit work or "sign-in" for other students.
Homeworks:
You will have between 4-6 homeworks in this class. You will have
between 4 to 10 days to complete each homework. The last homework
assignment may be due during the final week of class.
Proper Code Style
Code clarity is crucial for your homeworks in this class.
For this reason, using good style (good variable names and
good commenting practices) is required on all coding homework
assignments.  Failure to sufficiently comment or use good style will
result in a deduction of up to 10 points of your grade.
Timely handling of grade disputes:
Disputes of grading on homeworks, assignments, exams, etc must be discussed
within one week of their return or posting.
Should you find yourself having an issue with a grade, contact
your
course instructor.
Late Work and Missed Exam Policy:
Assignments must be turned in
before
the date and time indicated to be considered "on-time". Homework Assignments (only) will be accepted up to
one school day late, but late homework assignments will have their score
reduced by 10 points. Assignments later than 1 school day will receive no
credit.
There are no makeups for missed exams. Any request for
exceptions to this policy should be made in advance when at all
possible. Requests should be due to incapacitating illness, death in
the family, or something similarly serious and be accompanied by
supporting documentation. Events such as sleeping through your alarm,
alarm malfunction, family vacation, not being aware of the exam will not be considered
excuses.
Piazza
We'll use Piazza to help pose and answer questions.
Cannot post homework code.
Link will be on T-Square.
Assignment Submission
Almost all assignments will be submitted electronically via T-Square.  The late assignment 24 hour period (-10 pts) will be automatically set up.  If you gamble with the normal due date and time cutoff, you may inadvertently end up within the "late" time period.  Don't do it.  If your assignment is stamped "late" by T-Square, then it is indeed counted late.
Access T-Square at
https://t-square.gatech.edu/
Collaboration
Quizzes and exams are to be completed alone with no outside
assistance.
Collaboration with other students in this CS 2316 class is an important
learning method. We require pair programming for several homeworks in this
class because programming in pairs creates higher quality code and improves
student learning. However, collaboration does not mean that you can use code written by other students. Please read