PY106 - Elementary Physics II
Summer 2000
Table of Contents
New information
(most recent update 8/1/00)
General course information
Syllabus, schedule, discussion and lab section information
Old exams
Other resources
Conceptual exercises, simulations, Giancoli web page
Thinking like a physicist
Useful links
New Information for PY106
Class meets daily in SCI 111 from 9:00 to 10:30 a.m.
NEW!
Problems 38 and 64 of the chapter 24 assignment (which is due
Wednesday, August 2) will be due at the start of class on Thursday, August 3.  The rest of this
assignment is still due at the usual time (at the start of discussion section on
Wednesday, August 2).
Concerning labs:
The first lab will take place on Thursday, July 6, from 10:30 to 1:00 in the basement of SCI.  Both lab sections, A and B, will meet at this time.  Afterward, labs will meet either on Tuesday or Thursday.  Look
here
to find out which lab section you are in.
Policy on missed labs:
If there are extenuating circumstances (which you must explain)
that will cause you to miss your regularly
scheduled lab session of the week, you may attend the other lab session that
week, provided you obtain my permission by MONDAY of the week of the
lab you are missing.  You should give me written notice, either by e-mail or
on paper.  You will be permitted to do this only once.
Concerning discussion sections:
The first discussion sections will meet on Friday, July 7, from 10:30 to noon.  Both discussion sections will run simultaneously on Wednesdays and Fridays from 10:30 to noon.
Look
here
to find out which discussion section you are in.
You are required to attend the discussion and lab sections to which you have been assigned.  There will be no changes.
Homework is due
at the start of discussion section
and will only be accepted on (or before) the due date.
Homework solutions are available on the web
the day after the homework is due.
Solutions will also be posted on the bulletin board for PY106
that is outside the classroom.
Once the solutions are posted, we can not accept homework for grading.
General course information on PY106
Course information
- general policies and marking scheme, includes contact information for the professor and teaching fellows
Syllabus
- course calendar with assignments and labs, linked to
course notes
Office hours
- a list of all the office hours - please feel free to drop by
Assignments to
discussion
and
lab
sections.
Solutions
- solutions to the homework assignments will be posted the day after each assignment is due
If you have comments, suggestions, or criticisms about the course, please feel free to contact the professor. Alternatively, you can fill in this web-based
suggestion form
.
Items on reserve in the Science and Engineering Library
There are a number of items on reserve at the library, including:
2 copies of volume 1 of the textbook (author is D.C. Giancoli)
2 copies of volume 2 of the textbook (author is D.C. Giancoli)
1 copy of the Study Guide for our textbook (author is Joseph Boyle)
1 copy of the MCAT Physics Study Guide (author is Joseph Boone)
Exams from previous years of PY106
Exam 1 covers chapters 16-19.
Here are several exercises available for you online to see if you're prepared for Exam 1:
Conceptual exercises on Test 1 material
- a set of 9 conceptual questions
Problems on Test 1 material
- a set of 8 problems
Test 1 from Spring 1998 - this is the
90-minute test
and here are the
solutions
to the test.
Two versions of Test 1 from Spring 1997 - both were 50-minute tests:
Section A exam
and
Section C exam
Exam 2 covers chapters 20-23.
Here are several exercises available for you online to see if you're prepared for Exam 2:
Conceptual exercises on Test 2 material
- a set of 10 conceptual questions
Problems on Test 2 material
- a set of 7 problems on Test 2 material
Test 2 from Spring 1998 - this is the
90-minute test
and here are the
solutions
to the test.
Test 2 from Spring 1997 is also available - here is the
50-minute test
along with the
solutions
.
The final exam covers chapters 16-30.
The questions from the
1997 final exam
are available here, along with the
solutions
Here are some hints on studying for quizzes and exams:
Fair game for surprise quizzes in class includes any material covered in class
up through the day before.  Note that at the beginning of this course, the homework
due dates lag the coverage of material in class.
Fair game for quizzes in discussion sections includes any material that has been
covered up through the homework that will be due at the NEXT discussion section.
For ideas on what exam questions or discussion section quizzes on chapters 16 and 17
might look like,
please check out the
Physics Simulations
created by Andrew Duffy and Ali Loewy (of the BU physics department).  The lessons on
electric forces and fields, and electric potential and potential energy, will be very helpful
in forming a conceptual
understanding of the material presented in class on chapters 16 and 17.
You may see problems like these on quizzes or exams.  Warning: the Java simulations in these
lessons are not friendly to some Mac platforms.
In addition to conceptual questions from previous years, the
MCAT practice questions on the
Giancoli web page
also offer more
practice answering conceptual questions.
Other resources
To gain a conceptual understanding of electric fields and potentials, try these
lessons on E-fields and potentials
by Andrew Duffy and Ali Loewy of the BU Physics Department.
Electric fields can be tricky things to understand.
Try this
simulation of electric fields.
Here are also a couple of magnetic field simulations. The first focuses on
long straight wires
and the second deals with
coils and solenoids
.
Here is an
explanation
of the right-hand rule
for determining the directions of the velocity, magnetic
field, and force on a charge vectors.
There is also a simulation
of
AC Circuits
.
Here's an
optics
simulation using
lenses and mirrors, with ray diagrams.
Physics Simulations on