CHEN
3600 - Computer Aided Chemical Engineering
"Chemical Engineering Problem Solving and Communications"
Course Syllabus
Spring 2012
Dr. Placek
Instructor
Information
Name
Dr
Timothy D. Placek
Email
placetd@auburn.edu
Office
Location
Ross
228
Office
Hours
Office Hours (as listed or by appointment)
MWF: 0915-1100
(tentative)
Phone
(334)
844-2022
Web
page
Dr.
Timothy D. Placek
Teaching
Philosophy
Statement
of Teaching Philosophy
Course
Description
Course
Title
Computer-Aided
Chemical Engineering
Course
Schedule
Lecture:
Mon&Wed: 0800-0850 ROSS 306
Lab: Tues&Thurs: 0800-0920 ROSS 306
Course
Description
CHEN
3600 (3) Lec. 2, Lab. 3.
Prerequisites: COMP 1200, MATH 2650. Completion of CHEN 2610
with a grade of C or higher.
Course
Description: Systematic approach to solving chemical engineering
problems using analytical
and synthetic approaches. Effective communication of problem
solution and recommendations
using established formats for writing elements. General and
structured programming concepts, introductory probability and
statistics concepts. Application to chemical engineering problems
involving material and energy balances and transport process,
data validation and analysis.
Course
Schedule
http://www.eng.auburn.edu/~tplacek/courses/3600/3600schedule.shtml
Textbooks
and Other Materials
Required
Recommended
and Reference
[1] Palm, Introduction to MATLAB (R) for Engineers, Third Ed.,
McGraw Hill, 2011, ISBN: 978007353487-9.
[2] MATLAB (R) Student Edition Software Package.
[3] Flash drive (suitable for storage of MATLAB and other files
exclusively for CHEN 3600).
[1] Press et al., Numerical Recipes in C: The Art of Scientific
Computing, Third Ed., Cambridge University Press, 2007.
[2] Rice and Do, Applied Mathematics for Chemical Engineers,
John Wiley and Sons, Inc., 1995.
[3] Felder and Rousseau, Elementary Principles of Chemical Processes,
3rd Edition, John Wiley and Sons, Inc., 2005.
Grader
and Teaching Assistant
Grader
GTA:
Alexander D. Haywood
E-Mail:
adh0017@tigermail.auburn.edu
Office: Ross 329
Office Hours: email for an appointment
(usually available M-F 11am-5pm)
Course
Objectives
Course Objectives:
The overall goals of the
course are to provide a solid introduction to systematic problem
solving methods as well as effective technical writing skills.
Students will receive instruction in the use of the software
product MATLAB (R) . Students will master general programming
concepts as well as gain an appreciation of formal problem solving
methodology. Structured programming is stressed with emphasis
placed on problem formulation. Example problems and laboratory
projects draw from the chemical engineering field whereby the
student learns to apply appropriate software techniques and/or
numerical methods. Problems will be taken from the areas of
material and energy balances, fluid mechanics, thermodynamics,
transport, kinetics, data fitting and analysis of experimental
data and steady state and dynamic modeling. The course instruction
stresses the characteristics and standards employed in effectively
communicating engineering data and problem results.
Course
Outcomes
Course
outcomes define the desired level of learning that is to be
accomplished by a student at the time of the completion of the
course. Each outcome consists of a skill or attitude as well
as a desired mastery level. By defining specific course outcomes,
both students and faculty can ensure that the technical and
professional subject material essential to the course is covered
as well as detailing the degree of mastery expected.
(Note: These are not in chronological order)
Upon successful completion of this course, students
should be able to:
1. Explain, employ and apply mathematical concepts and constructs
(basic mathematical functions, rates of change, areas under
curves, Laplace transform, Monte Carlo Simulation) encountered
in engineering problems.
2. Employ one-dimensional arrays and two-dimensional matrices
to represent, store and manipulate data collections.
3. Create effective graphs (e.g., x-y, scatter, line, surface,
etc.) observing departmental format. Select appropriate trend
lines. Graph parametric functions.
4. Apply appropriate standard methods to solve single and multiple,
coupled algebraic equations.
5. Solve single and multiple variable linear regression problems.
6. Employ systematic problem solving methods and critical thinking
skills to develop the equations required to obtain a solution
of various chemical engineering and general engineering problems.
7. Employ basic programming concepts including programming structures
to solve basic and intermediate level problems.
8. Employ the “stepwise improvement method” to develop
solutions for simple programming problems.
9. Create, modify and employ user de?ned functions and scripts
as appropriate for solving engineering problems.
10. Explain and employ probability concepts (including expectation,
probability, likelihood, descriptive statistics, discrete and
continuous random variables, probability distribution functions,
cumulative distribution functions, inverse distribution functions).
11. Apply discrete distribution functions (e.g., Bernoulli,
binomial) and continuous distribution functions (e.g., standard
normal, normal) to solve problems involving random behavior.
12. Sample data (via simulation) from discrete and continuous
distributions.
13. Explain the concept of hypothesis testing and set-up and
interpret the results of hypothesis tests involving the mean
and proportion.
14. Prepare written communications (technical reports and memos)
that effectively convey technical information to the intended
audience in a form and at level of detail appropriate for the
purpose of the communication (adhering to departmental formats
for the presentation of equations, figures, tables, and citations).
Revision:
April 18, 2011
Out-of-Class
Assignment Policy
(see
Class
Policies Document
)
Homework
includes all types of out-of-class assignments including programs,
re