CISC 1100 R06 Structures of Computer Science
Department of Computer and Information Science
Dr. Weiss, Spring 2011
CLICK FOR CLASS SCHEDULE
Class Times:
Tuesday & Friday, 11:30 - 12:45, JMH 138
Instructor:
Dr. Gary Weiss
(
my homepage
)
Office:
JMH 332
Phone:
718-817-0785
Email:
gweiss@cis.fordham.edu
Office Hours:
Tuesday 2:30-4:00, Friday 1:00-2:00, and by
appointment.
Required Text:
"Fundamentals of Discrete Structures", D. Lyons,
C. Papadakis-Kanaris, G. Weiss, and A. Werschulz, Pearson, 2010. (Available
only from the Fordham bookstore).
Course Website:
http://storm.cis.fordham.edu/~gweiss/classes/cisc1100
Lecture Slides and Handouts:
These
lecture slides
and
handouts
cover the class material (and also the material from the book).
Tutoring Room:
Location: JMH 312   Hours M-F: 9am-5pm
Course Description:
An introductory course in the discrete structures used in computer and
information technology. Emphasis will be placed on the ability to solve
problems and develop logical thinking. Topics such as sets, logic,
relations, functions, combinatorics and probability will be
covered. Approximately 15% of the class time will be spent in the
Computer Science laboratory on computer-based projects.
Objectives:
To develop mathematical and computational reasoning abilities and to
master the basics of discrete mathematics; to become more comfortable
and confident with both mathematics and computation.
Outcomes:
A student who successfully completes this course will be able to:
Analyze and understand common mathematical notation and concepts
Develop solutions to mathematical problems across a wide array of topics
Use a well-defined methodology to reason about mathematical problems
Be able to complete simple computer-based projects
Attendance and Class Participation:
It is important to attend every class and to be prepared for every class.
Being prepared means completing the assigned readings and homeworks on time and
being ready to discuss the material.  Please
actively
participate in
class since this will make the course more interesting for everyone!  Please
ask questions if you are unsure about something. Homeworks should be turned in
on time, but
may
be accepted one class late, with penalty.
If you have an issue and cannot complete an assignment on time, whenever
feasible let me know beforehand-- I tend to be quite reasonable in such
cases. In general, let me know of any significant issues that affect your
performance early on.  One unexcused/unexplained absence is permitted
for the semester. Attendance will be taken every day.
Academic Honesty:
All work produced in this course should be your
own unless it is specifically stated that you may work with others. You
may discuss the homework problems with other students generally, but
may not provide complete solutions to one another; copying of homework
is never acceptable and will be considered a violation
of Fordham's academic integrity policy. Violations of this policy
will be handled in accordance with university policy which can
include automatic failure of the assignment and/or failure of the
course. See Fordham's
Undergraduate
Policy on Academic Integrity
for more information.
Grading:
The percentages given below are guidelines for both the student and
instructor and may be changed as needed to reflect circumstances in
the course. Any changes that occur during the semester are likely to be
minor.
Homework
15%
Midterm
20%
Quiz
10%
Course Project
15%
Participation
5%
Final Exam
35%
Computer Project:
Your computer project will involve creating a simple animiation, using
the
Alice programming environment
.
No prior knowledge of computer science or computer programming is
expected. You will learn about Alice during class sessions (where we will
meet in the CIS lab, either JMH 330 or 331) but most of your project will
need to be done as homework, outside of class. You can work on your project
in one of the CIS labs or you can easily download Alice to your PC or Mac.
The project will allow you to be creative and hopefully will be fun. To see
what previous students have done, check out my
Student Animation
Page
(note that I have posted only some of the best animations).
Also, I have put together some
notes on using Alice
, object-oriented
programming, and what is expected for the project.