CISC 1600
at Brooklyn College
Home
Courses
Calendar
CISC 1600
CISC 1600 -
Introduction to Multimedia Computing
Meyer - Spring 2012
Sat, 10:00AM-1:00PM
5301N
Announcements & Calendar
Can't see calendar? Use this link.
COURSE INFORMATION
Course Abbreviation:
CISC 1600
Credits:
3.0 (3 hours)
Code:
3668
Section:
CN1
Schedule:
S 10:00-01:00PM
Room:
5301 N
Lab:
5301 N
Semester:
Spring 2012
INSTRUCTOR INFORMATION
Instructor:
Matthew Meyer
Office:
534 NE
E-mail:
Web Page:
http://www.sci.brooklyn.cuny.edu/~meyer
COURSE DESCRIPTION
This course will commence with a broad introduction to topics in Multi-Media Computing (MMC), including: web design, web programming, graphics, animation, data visualization, simulations and game design. Discussions will be introductory and will cover a broad range of subjects, such as: multimedia hardware and software, human interface design and input using multi-media devices; graphical and other forms of output to multi-media devices; agent-based programming for simulations; and uses of multi-media in industry. Emphasis is on the design and creation of a range of artifacts, including: web pages, with HTML and cascading style sheets; interactive, graphical web-based programs; and simple computer games and narratives. The format consists of alternative lecture/laboratory class sessions, with STRONG emphasis on hands-on learning.
Topics
1. Introduction to web programming and web design.
[ Princples of Web Design; XTHML; Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) ]
2. Interactive web programming and graphic applications.
[ Processing; JavaScript; Server Side Scripting Languages ]
3. Agent-based programming, simulations and visualizations.
[ NetLogo; Many Eyes ]
4. Game Programming and Visual Narratives.
[ Scratch; FLash CS4; Mobile Device Programming ]
Note to advanced students:
Students who already have knowledge of some of the topic areas and technologies that will be covered in CIS 3.5, will be offered advanced projects and modified attendance requirements if (and only IF) they can demonstrate that they are already familiar with the introductory level material within a topic area.
Prerequisites
NONE.
REQUIRED TEXTBOOK(S)
There is no set textbook for this class. Online resources will be provided for all topics.
TECHNOLOGY REQUIREMENTS
A USB FLASH drive is REQUIRED.
Students may use their own computers at home or use the college computers (Library, Computer Café, Web Building).
When specialized software is required, it will be either provided in the lab, or be freely available online.
GRADING
Project & Assignments 50% (4 * 12.5 points each)
Attendance & Participation 10%
Midterm 10%
Final 30%
Attendance:
I take attendance. Each unexcused absence will lower your FINAL grade by 1 percentage point. Each time you are late to class will cost you 1/2 of a percentage point on your FINAL grade. (Up to 10 points total).
GETTING HELP
Tutor Assistance
Tutors are available in the open lab in the laboratory facility at the WEB building. They may or may not be able to help you with your course materials.
General Advice
COME TO CLASS.
Take good notes.
Ask questions.
Do the assignments on time.
Contact me if you are confused or fall behind, for whatever reason. Come to my office hours or email me.
I get MANY email messages every day, so please keep your message short and to the point. If your story goes on longer than a page (80 columns by 24 rows of text), then be aware that I probably won't read much past the first page.
Note that email messages where the sender's name seems fake (e.g., "Mickey Mouse") or the subject is blank or undecipherable, may be automatically filtered out in attempt to eliminate spam and other offensive messages.
Please don't email me programming code.
Don't ever email me an application (executable code)!
If I haven't replied to you, please be patient. Sending me multiple copies of the same message (or multiple messages that say the same thing) only clogs my inbox, which takes me longer to get to your message.
PLEASE USE THE FOLLOWING SUBJECT LINE IN ALL EMAILS TO ME:
Your name, this class, why you are writing
Example: M. Meyer, CISC 1600, Hmwk #1
PROJECT INFORMATION
General Information:
Each of the areas of study are covered by one or more "Projects". Each project is designed to give you an in depth introduction to a subject area.
Submission Instructions:
You need to create an archive of the files you are submitting (if you are submitting multiple files, or a folder hierachy) and then email that archive to me. If you are using a PC, please use ZIP files (not RAR). You can create zip files on most PC's simple by right clicking on the folder you want to send and choosing "send to" => "compressed folder".
If you are using a MAC, you can use the File - Create Archive utility in the Finder. Simply highlight all the files you want to include in the archive by clicking once on each file's icon while holding down the Apple key. Then from the Finder, click on File - Create Archive and an archive file will be created called Archive.zip.
Late Assignments:
Each assignment must be handed in or emailed to me on the day that it is due. Any assignment received after midnight of its due date will be penalized 10%, for each calendar day after the due date (after 10 days I don't accept it).
COURSE POLICIES
Student Conduct:
Any acts of disruption that go beyond the normal rights of students to question and discuss with instructors the educational process relative to subject content will not be tolerated, in accordance with the Academic Code of Conduct described in the Student Handbook.
Electronic Devices in Class Policy:
Cellular telephones, pagers, CD players, radios, and similar devices are prohibited in the classroom and laboratory facilities. Calculators and computers are prohibited during examinations, unless specified.
Examination Policy:
A midterm and final examination will be given in class. Please schedule your other activities in advance. No make-up exams will be allowed without pri