CS5800 Algorithms Sec 2, Summer 2026
about CS5800
home
schedule
gradescope
piazza
Instructor:
Virgil Pavlu
E-mail:
v.pavlu@northeastern.edu
, but I prefer Teams-chat
Lecture:
MW 1:30-3:10 pm, Hurtig 130
Office
hours
Campus   Mon Thu 4PM; HS106
Teams/Online :  Friday 10AM
TAs:
Henry Abrahamsen, abrahamsen.h@northeastern.edu
For LLM problems:
Shreyans Mulkutkar, mulkutkar.s@northeastern.edu
Sanjana Sri Injamuri, injamuri.s@northeastern.edu
Teams : Khoury - CS 5800 11 (Fall 2025)
Not required, but some OH/recitations, code demos, or even lectures might happen online if necessary.
Discussion :
piazza
Please use the discussion forum for all questions
regarding material, assignments, due dates, data issues,
programming issues, etc. That is, do not use the direct email to
TAs or Instructors for these questions.
Personal/private matters, such as availability, delays,
grades, term projects or other advanced material, etc, should be in Teams private chat with instructor or course coordinator
Gradescope: https://www.gradescope.com/courses/1308012
HW Submission must be latex compiled pdfs. Code can be submitted as a file (when so indicated) or in general as printed into the pdf HW submission.
Text Book Required
[CLRS]
Algorithms 4th ed by Cormen, Leiserson, Rivest, Stein
Other texts
Kleinberg,
Tardos: Algorithms Design
Algorithms by S.
Dasgupta, C.H. Papadimitriou, and U.V. Vazirani
Algorithms by Robert Sedgewick, Kevin Wayne
Prerequisites
Basic imperative programing experience
in a language such as Python, Java, C, Matlab
. You will
actually not do much programing in the course, but a minimum
experience with the logic is required.
Math (general): arithmetic,
logs,
exponential, calculus, linear algebra
Discrete Math
An UG-level intro to Algorithms/Datastructures Course
Homework
There will be about 12 assignments
(one per module, every week), including programming ;
please see the syllabus for an exact schedule. Some of the
problems can be difficult, and it will often be helpful to
discuss them with others. Feel free to form study groups.
However, the idea is for everyone to understand the problems
and experience working through the solutions, so you
may not
simply "give" a solution to another classmate. In
particular, each student
must
write up his or her own homework
solutions/code and
must
not
read or copy the
solutions/code of others. If you work with others on a
problem, you
must
note with whom you discussed the
problem at the beginning of your solution write-up.
We expect the average total load to be
20 hours/week. Based on past experience, many students spend
more than 20 hours/week for prerequisite work, or for additional problems ("Extra Credit" or "Optional") with no credit /effect on HW grades.
EC is harder, more time
consuming, worth no points, and less discussed during
helping sessions; it is designed for students who want to get
more out of the course.
The best way, by far, to
maximize
your grade is to complete the regular
credit on time.
Late homework policy: Homework is due
at the on the announced due date.  I normally
will not accept assignments after the due date; if you will have a valid
reason for turning in an assignment late, please see me
in advance
to obtain full-credit.
Exams
There will be 2 in-class exams, on
paper, probably on Saturday. Each exam will have about 5-6
problems
, and you will have plenty of time to solve
them (please book the whole day)
Approximative grade weightage is  HW:30%; Midterm:35%; Final:35%. This can change depending on exam setup. Students can get up to 5% on consistent participation to OH and piazza, specifically on solving the difficult problems and helping other students on these.
Academic Honesty
All work
submitted for credit must be your own.
You may discuss
the homework problems or projects with your classmates,
the teaching assistant(s), and instructor. You must
acknowledge the people with whom you discussed your work,
and you must write up your own solutions. Any written
sources used (apart from the text) must also be
acknowledged; however, you may
not
consult
any solutions from previous years' assignments whether
they are student or faculty generated.