Math 124, Summer 2011, University of Arizona
Calculus I with Applications
Course Description:
Introduction to calculus with an emphasis on understanding and problem solving. Concepts are presented graphically and numerically as well as algebraically. Elementary functions, their properties and uses in modeling; the key concepts of derivative and definite integral; techniques of differentiation, using the derivative to understand the behavior of functions; applications to optimization problems in physics, biology and economics.
At the University of Arizona, we use the reform calculus curriculum, with an emphasis on meaning and interpretation.  This provided me with many opportunities to write realistic problems!  Many of these problems showed up in quizzes and on exams, which I do not like to post publically.
This particular course ran during one session of the summer semester.  This meant the entire course had to be completed in 23 days!  We met every day of the week for three hours, and many students frequented office hours after class.  I always started each day with a review exercise.  These exercises were sometimes short individual quizzes, group quizzes, or problems that students worked on individually for five to ten minutes and then discussed in a group.  New material was presented via a combination of interactive powerpoint presentations, worksheets to be completed in small groups, and occasional activities.  After the course was over, I gave a talk at the UA Mathematics graduate colloquium about my experience and what I tried to bring to the class, called
Adventures in Calculus
.  Most of the worksheets were prepared by one of our lecturers and can be viewed
here
.
Course materials are shared with students through Desire2Learn, an online course management program.  I present here selected materials.
First Day Handouts
Syllabus
Sample PowerPoints
The first two powerpoints are from consecutive sections in our text that we cover in the opposite order.  The first in my list below is Section 2.4, which is about the interpretation of the derivative at a point, while the second in my list is Section 2.3, the derivative function.  Since we cover the derivative at a point in Section 2.2, it makes sense to cover 2.4 before 2.3.
The Interpretation of the Derivative
The Derivative Function
(Note the reference to current events on the last slide!  This is something I try to do frequently.)
The Chain Rule
(Note the link on the last slide.  Using the video, this actually takes some time and several viewings in order for this demonstration to help students with the Chain Rule.  I believe having students actually work with these gears instead of watching a video would be much more effective!)
Properties of Integrals
Project
Due to time constraints, I was unable to include projects in this course.  However, I wrote a project that I would like to use in the future.  This project is about the Gini coefficient, an index used to measure income inequality.  The last few slides of my sample lesson on integral properties above shows the extent to which I was able to show this concept to the students in this class.
Click here
to see the project that I wrote.
Evaluations
Student Evaluation Scores
Student Written Evaluations
(complete set)
Unsolicited Student Comments
(These comments were provided spontaneously by distinct students during or after the course.)
Supervisors do not write evaluations during the summer semesters.
Return to Teaching Page