Astronomy
101 (AY101 - Section 003) - Spring 2026
Introduction to Astronomy
Go to bottom of page to access class notes.
Instructor
Prof.
Jimmy Irwin
Office
311C
Gallalee
Phone
348-3791
Email
jairwin@ua.edu
Office Hours
2:00
PM – 3:30 PM Tuesday, or 3:30 PM – 5:00 PM Thursday
– or by appointment
Course Webpage
http://pages.astronomy.ua.edu/jairwin/AY101/AY101.html
Time and Room
Lecture:
MWF 12:30 PM - 1:45 PM in 227 Gallalee
Textbook
The Essential Cosmic Perspective
, by Bennett, Donahue, Schneider, & Voit
- Electronic version only
Modified Mastering Astronomy account (for homework) - also online
Prequisites
None.
Course Description
This course provides (1) a discussion of the orbital mechanics and of the interior structure,
surface features, atmosphere, and origin of the sun, planets, and solar system; (2) an understanding
of the detection techniques and current census of extrasolar planets, and (3) a discourse on the
possibility of life on other planets (4) an introduction to the physical processes in
stars and the evolution of stars that leads to the observed properties of
stars; (5) a study of the final endpoints of stellar evolution including the
nature and production of white dwarf stars, neutron stars, and black holes;
(6) an introduction to the properties of galaxies, galactic dynamics, and
star formation in galaxies, and (7) the cosmological model that accounts for
the presently observed chemical composition of galaxies and stars, and for
the presently observed dynamical structures of the Universe.
Note: AY102 (Astronomy Lab) must also be taken (in this or some later semester) for AY101
to count towards the Natural Science portion of the Core Curriculum. If you are not interested in satisfying the Natural Science requirement, AY102 is not required.
Keep in mind, AY102 is UNAFFILIATED with this class in terms of grading. AY102 has a different instructor, different syllabus, and different grading system than AY101. In general, I will know very little about the logistics of AY102.
Your performance in AY102 in no way affects your grade in AY101, and vice versa.
Also note that students planning on taking AY204/AY206 as an astronomy major or minor in the future should not take AY101.
Fair Treatment
The University of Alabama is committed to an ethical, inclusive community defined by respect and civility.  The UAct website (www.ua.edu/uact) provides a list of reporting channels that can be used to report incidences of illegal discrimination, harassment, sexual assault, sexual violence, retaliation, threat assessment or fraud.
Learning Objectives
o Students will be able to characterize the appearance and motion of celestial objects.
o Students will be able to identify the key conceptual advances (and associated figures) in the history of astronomy.
o Students will understand the relationship between light, matter, and energy in an astronomical context.
o Students will understand the content, formation and evolution of planetary systems.
o Students will understand the nature and evolution of stars.
o Students will understand the nature and evolution of galaxies.
o Students will understand the nature and evolution of the Universe.
Attendance Policy
Class participation contributes 10% to your final grade (see below). Participation is measured via questions posed throughout the lecture. The questions can be accessed on the same
Mastering Astronomy website where the homeworks can be found. Questions must be answered in real time during the lecture. But if you miss a class, do not panic.
For the semester you are allowed 8 attendance "freebies" - you can miss class for any reason
throughtout the semester 8 times, no questions asked. These freebies are intended to cover illness,
family emergencies, job interviews, etc. There is
no need to bring a doctor's note for a missed class (in fact, I do not want to collect dozens of doctor's notes from students throughout the semester), just use one of your 8
attendance freebies, that is what they are there for.
It is important to use your 8 attendance freebies wisely!
If you use up your 8 freebies early in the semester because you don't want to attend class, and
then you really do get sick or have an emergency later, your 9th absence will
not
be excused even with a doctor's note and you will have to take a zero for that day's attendance grade. Any
extended
(three consecutive
classes or more) illness for which you do have a doctor's note in this special case will be dealt with on a case-by-case basis - I am reasonable in these extreme cases.
Extra Credit
No extra credit will be offered in this course beyond those offered occasionally to the entire class (e.g., overview quiz, or to attend an evening public astronomy talk by a visitor). Do not ask for extra credit opportunities at the end of the semester in an
attempt to raise your grade.
Homework
This course will use the Modified Mastering Astronomy homework and tutorial system (license code bundled with the E-textbook, purchased online). A link on Blackboard will help guide you through the registration process. You can then access the Mastering Astronomy site by clicking on the "MasteringAstronomy Course Home" link on Blackboard. Each homework will be weighted equally, regardless of the point total of any particular homework.
The penalty for late homework is 10% per day, although it is pro-rated per minute, so being an hour late will only cost you 0.4%. In other words, it is better to do careful work and
be a little late than to rush to finish on time. After 5 days, the late penalty stops at 50% and you can complete the homework any time before the final exam for up to 50% credit.
This is to encourage you to do the homework (and learn from it!) even if you are very late completing it. In addition, the late penalty is only enacted on those questions that are still incomplete, not on questions completed before the deadline.
Finally, your homework score on MasteringAstronomy will be transferred to the Blackbo