Skip to main content
Visit the University of North Carolina at Charlotte homepage
Explore
Visit the University of North Carolina at Charlotte homepage
Close
What can we help you find?
Submit search query to search.charlotte.edu
Academics
Admissions
Campus Life
Research
Athletics
About
Apply
Visit
Give
News & Events
Directory
My UNC Charlotte
Quick Links
Majors & Minors
Graduate Programs
Calendar
Campus Maps
Class Registration
Financial Aid
Housing
Library
Report an Incident
Resources
Prospective Students
Alumni & Friends
Faculty & Staff
Current Students
Parents & Family
Colleges
Arts + Architecture
Business
Computing and Informatics
Education
Engineering
Graduate School
Health and Human Services
Honors College
Humanities & Earth and Social Sciences
Science
The Center for Teaching and Learning
Go to Search Page
Search this site
Search
Main Menu Toggle
Home
Events and Workshops
Innovate Your Teaching Workshops
Teaching Certificates
Self-Paced Workshops
SoTL Grants
Teaching Support
Teaching Guides
Online Course Production
Web Based Course Evals
Media Production
Active Learning Classrooms
Teaching Assistant Resources
CTL Transcript Request
Instructional Continuity Planning
April 2026: Campus Accessibility Awareness Month
Academic Technologies
Canvas
Canvas Studio
Poll Everywhere
Respondus
SimCheck
UDOIT Accessibility Tool
CTL Initiatives
Quality Enhancement Plan
RealizeIt
Inscribe
Coursera Microcredentials
AI Across The Curriculum
2026 4th Charlotte AI Summit
AI Steering Committee
AI Task Force Recommendations
AI Faculty Fellows
AI Microcredential
AI Faculty Workshops
AI Accelerator
AI Faculty Use Case Collection
About the CTL
Directory
CTL History
Where We’re Located
CTL 25th Anniversary
Awards
Presentations and Posters
Keynote Speaker
Lead Presenter:
Dale P. Johnson, Adaptive Program Manager, Arizona State University
Brief Description:
Dale works with faculty, staff, and technology partners to develop and implement adaptive courseware to help improve the student success rate. Those efforts have earned him the 2016 Sally M. Johnstone Award from WCET recognizing thought leadership, excellence in practice, and demonstrated leadership capabilities. In 2018, he was honored by the IMS Global Learning Consortium with an outstanding service award for his leadership of the adaptive courseware community of practice. Dale has spoken on adaptive courseware at more than 20 conferences in the USA, Korea, Mexico, Russia, and Vietnam and led workshops on the subject at numerous universities. He has a bachelor of science in design degree from ASU and a master in public policy degree from Harvard University, a learning path that combined his interests in design, engineering, history, and public policy. In his spare time, he enjoys traveling and building things. He’s traveled to more than 35 countries, lived in Barcelona for a year as a Rotary Foundation Ambassadorial Scholar, and built his own solar home in Phoenix
Presentation
[PPTX, 9.7MB]
Concurrent Sessions #1
Quantitative Literacy, Adaptive Learning, and ALEKS
Lead Presenter:
Susan Howard, Instructor/Coordinator PCC/ECU Mathematics Partnership, East Carolina University
Brief Description:
ECU received the UNC Student-Success Grant in support of implementation of an adaptive learning project. In the process of redesigning and piloting a quantitative literacy general mathematics course for non-STEM majors, ECU adopted ALEKS, an adaptive learning courseware system. The new course was piloted in Fall 2018 with continual adjustments being made for Spring 2019.
Presentation
[PDF, 868KB]
Implementing an Adaptive Learning System in Introductory Chemistry to Emphasize Mastery Learning
Lead Presenter:
Kathryn Asala, Teaching Professor, Department of Chemistry, UNC Charlotte
Co Presenter:
Alexandra Hurst, PhD Student, Nanoscale Science, UNC Charlotte
Brief Description:
In Fall 2018, all five sections of CHEM 1200 (Fundamentals of Chemistry) at UNC Charlotte used an adaptive learning platform, ALEKS, for the first time. ALEKS is an assessment and learning system specifically designed for the sciences and mathematics. Specifically, ALEKS was used for the mastery of foundational concepts in chemistry. The use of the adaptive learning system will continue in all three sections of CHEM 1200 in Spring 2019.
Presentation
[PDF, 138KB]
Poster
[PDF, 378KB]
BioSpine: Expanding the Use of Adaptive Learning
Lead Presenter:
Dale Johnson, Adaptive Program Manager, Arizona State University
Co Presenter:
Ben Gresh, Adaptive Learning Sales Representative, CogBooks
Brief Description:
CogBooks has partnered with Arizona State University to build the “BioSpine,” which combines ASU subject matter expertise with the power of CogBooks’ adaptive learning platform to provide instructional resources to biology students in their core courses. CogBooks helps students learn faster and more effectively by adapting to their needs while saving instructors time through automated grade pass back to the LMS and intuitive reporting. The presenters will discuss the BioSpine development process, challenges, best practices, and opportunities to collaborate.
Presentation Video
(make sure browser is up-to-date)
Saddle Up Broncos! Testing the Horse of Adaptive Learning at Fayetteville State University
Lead Presenter:
Kimberly Tran, Associate Professor of Psychology and Licensed Psychologist, Fayetteville State University
Co Presenters:
Bonnie Grohe, PhD, Director of Faculty Development and Online Education; Chet Dilday, PhD, Associate Professor of Social Work, Fayetteville State University
Brief Description:
FSU participated in the Association for Chief Academic Officers Digital Fellows Program in the Spring 2018 semester, after what Acrobatiq called “the fastest implementation they have ever seen.” Headed by the UNC System Office, the project was a collaboration with colleagues from UNC Pembroke and NC Central. In Spring 2019, FSU will implement a larger pilot of introductory face-to-face sections of Chem