Munmun De Choudhury, PhD
Georgia Tech
Home
Research
Papers
Talks
CV
Teaching
SocWeB Lab
mchoudhu@cc.gatech.edu
CODA Tech Square (C1576B)
756 W Peachtree St NW
Atlanta, GA 30308
+1 (404) 385-8603
Twitter:
@munmun10
Course:
CS 3001-C Computing, Society, and Professionalism
Term:
Spring 2022
Location:
Instructional Center 103
Lecture Time:
3:30 pm - 4:20 pm,  Mondays and Wednesdays
Section Times:
Check Oscar or Buzzport for your discussion section time; all sections held in-person
Discussion:
Piazza
Virtual Office Hours with Instructor:
Fridays 11:00am - 12pm; meeting link on course Canvas
Virtual Office Hours with Section TA:
Check your section Canvas
Head Teaching Assistant:
Tino Chikate
[C12]
Teaching Assistants:
Tanuj Bohra
[C13, C19]
Sanghavi Gaddam
[C01, C04]
Harshith Kayam
[C05, C11]
Ankith Kumar
[C03, C07]
Yalini Kumar
[C18, C21]
Allan Nguyen
[C10, C16]
Sejal Sarkar
[C08, C17]
Revanth Tiruveedhi
[C02, C15]
Tony Tu
[C06, C14]
Freya Wang
[C09, C20]
Learning Objectives
In this class, you will learn about:
Ethics:
What do "right" and "wrong" mean anyway? How is "ethical" different from "legal"? We'll learn about several philosophical approaches to ethics including 	utilitiarianism, Kantianism, social contract theory, and virtue ethics. The goal is for students to be able to address ethical dilemmas with reasoned arguments, grounded in a combination of these ethical theories.
Professional Ethics:
What special responsibilities do we have as computing professionals? What do the Software Engineering Code of Ethics and ACM Code of Ethics say, and how can we use these in our daily practice?
Computing and Society:
In what ways does computer technology impact society? We'll talk about a host of issues including privacy, intellectual property, and freedom of speech.
Assignments and Grading
Recitation Section Attendance and Participation - 15%
Homework Assignments (4 in all) - 25%
Homework Assignment I
|
Homework Assignment II
|
Homework Assignment III
|
Homework Assignment IV
Term Paper - 25%
Term Paper Proposal
|
Term Paper Outline
|
Full Term Paper
In-Person Midterm - 15%
Take-Home Final Exam (4/29 per
final exam schedule
; 24 hours available: 12am-11:59pm) - 20%
Sample midterm exercises are
here
, a sample final exam is
here
, and a sample term paper titled "Ethics of Worksplace Surveillance" is
here
(shared with the student's permission).
Attendance and Participation.
Attendance and participation are core aspects of this course. Attendance in the recitation sections is required and will be noted by your section TA. If you need to miss a recitation section for a legitimate reason, please send an email to the Head TA and copy the TA of your section, preferably before class.
You may miss up to two recitation section attendances without it affecting your grade. Other legitimate reasons that are excused include COVID-19 or other illness/health emergencies, religious events, attending a professional conference, or a job interview.
Please note that exams are strongly based on material that is covered in the in-person lectures and the discussions in the recitation sections. Although the COVID-19 pandemic situation is volatile, the lectures for now will be/are in-person. Discussions in the recitations in a particular week will be based on the material covered in the lectures in the same week. If you do miss a recitation section, please do get notes from a classmate and follow along based on the recitation section class exercises made available on the course website.
Reference Format.
Please use APA format for all references. APA format is described
here
.
ESL.
If English is not your first language, you may request to not be graded on your writing for a particular individual assignment, including the term paper. This means you won't be penalized for bad writing, but you also won't get credit for good writing. To take advantage of this option, you must mark "ESL" (English as a Second Language) on the first page of your assignment/paper. This option is not available for group assignments. We still of course expect you to try to write in correct English, and will do our best to offer useful feedback on your writing.
Late Policy.
Students need to submit all of their materials on or before the deadline to qualify for 100% credit. 24 hours delay will result in 25% penalty; 48 hours late submissions will incur 50% penalty. Materials submitted past 48 hours will not be accepted, and will be entered a zero grade.
Honor Code.
This class abides by the
Georgia Tech Honor Code
. All assigned work is expected to be individual, except where explicitly written otherwise. You are encouraged to discuss the assignments with your classmates; however, what you hand in should be your own work. We will be thoroughly checking for plagiarism issues and any instance will be dealt with the Institute's recommended protocol.
Mental Health.
As college students, it can be hard to prioritize your health, especially when you are pushed to prioritize academics, work, and extracurricular activities especially during a still ongoing pandemic, COVID-19. The instructor and Head TA are happy to talk to you privately if you need mental health related accommodations. Please also refer to the
various campus resources
to access timely, professional help as well as self-care tips.
COVID-19 Protocols.
The COVID-19 pandemic is still affecting the world and our lives. If you test positive for COVID-19, suspect you may have been exposed to the virus, or feel sick due to a reason that may be contagious, please email the instructor, the head TA, and your section TA as soon as you can. To protect yourself and others in the class, we ask you to not come to the class or the recitation in such a situation; you will not be penalized in any way and your grade will not be affected. Similarly, if the instructor or any of the TAs test positive for COVID-19, suspect exposure, or feel sick due to a suspected infection, the lecture/recitation section will either