Intro to Object Oriented Programming
Spring 2025
Syllabus
- Summary -
Course Title
Intro to Object Oriented Programming (IOOP)
Course No.
CS 04.113
CRN
22481 - 22482
Section
1 - 2
Start/End Dates
January 21 - May 9, 2025
Term/Module
Spring 2025
- Course Description -
Introduces the fundamental concepts of programming from an object-oriented perspective. Topics are drawn from classes and objects, abstraction, encapsulation, data types, calling methods and passing parameters, decisions, loops, arrays and collections, documentation, testing and debugging, exceptions, design issues, inheritance, and polymorphic variables and methods. The course emphasizes modern software engineering and design principles.
Prerequisites:
Declared Computer Science major or minor
Successful completion with C- or better in MATH 01.130 Calculus I
For any designated Honors program courses, the following Honors Student Learning Outcomes (SLOs) will also be met:
3.1.2 Problem Solving
Students seek out and evaluate multiple and divergent approaches to solutions.
4.2.1 Adapt and Apply Skills, Theories, Methods
Students adapt and apply skills, theories, or methods gained in one situation to new situations to solve problems or explore issues in novel ways.
- Instructor -
Name
Chia Chien
Email
chien@rowan.edu
Website
http://users.rowan.edu/~chien/
Office Hours
M 3-5p (WebEx)
By appointment via
RSN-Starfish
- Policies-
Attendance
Students are responsible for attendance at all class meetings during regularly scheduled times. Attendance may also be a mandatory component of final course grades. Up to 6 class absence days per semester may be permitted. Late arrivals and early departures will be charged as a half-day (1/2) absence. After 6 absence days, a final letter grade of F, W, or WF may be given with no credit for the class.
Due to the unique structure of the course with some solutions provided immediately after deadlines, it is also very important to complete ALL assignments and assessments on or by their designated dates, as
there are NO extensions or makeups scheduled
. If absent, you are still responsible for any missed material and completing all work by the assigned due dates.
If you have to miss an exam due to certain extenuating circumstances, you need to notify me before the fact or as soon as possible. You MUST also provide acceptable documentation of the reason for your absence. For more information on student attendance responsibilities, see the
Rowan Attendance Policy
.
Classroom Decorum
All students are held to certain standards of conduct and are expected to help promote a learning-conducive environment by respecting their instructor/classmates and by adhering to the
Rowan Classroom Behavior Policy
whereby:
Preparing for each class by bringing all required material (i.e. book, USB drive, etc.)
Completing the reading and assignments by the due dates
Being on time and staying for the entire class
Remaining in the room during entire lecture
Understanding of contiguous, extended lab class structure with ability to leave the lab for short individual breaks (i.e. to get a drink or use the rest room) except during assessments
Avoiding eating and drinking in class with absolutely NO food or drinks permitted in lab classrooms
Turning off or muting all personal electronics
Refraining from texting and personal electronic usage during class
Focusing only on course work in class (i.e. lab computers may NOT be used at any time for playing games, watching videos, surfing the web or any other non-lab activity)
Class Withdrawal Policy (subject to change)
Date
Process
Transcript
Before 1/27
Drop/add courses easily without forms or approvals
Course will not be shown
Before 2/3
Late drop with Registrar form
(NO late adds will be permitted)
Course will not be shown
Before 4/14
Withdraw from course with Registrar form
Course grade of W
Starting 4/15
NO withdrawals - unless exception approved by Dean of Students for extreme hardship requests with supporting documentation meeting 1 or more hardship categories
Course grade of W
Acceptable Use Policies
By registering and taking this course, you are agreeing to follow all Rowan computer and network acceptable use policies for faculty, staff, and students. Detailed information may be found on the
Rowan Acceptable Use Policy
,
Computer Lab Usage Policy
,
Workstation Use Policy
, and
Mobile Electronic Device Policy
. Or, access all the Rowan
Information Resources & Technology Policies and Procedures
.
Statement of Accommodation
Your academic success is important. If you have a documented disability that may have an impact upon your work in this class, please contact the instructor ASAP. Students
must provide
documentation of their disability to the
Office of Accessibility Services
in order to receive official University services and accommodations. They may be reached at (856) 256-4259 and are located on the second floor of Savitz Hall. The staff is available to answer questions regarding accommodations or to assist you in your pursuit of accommodations.
Academic Integrity and Plagiarism
Plagiarism and cheating in ANY form is considered academic dishonesty and will NOT be tolerated in any of your classes.
Students are encouraged to share ideas and consult with other
approved
resources. However, all submitted work (except group work as determined by the instructor) is expected to be fully comprehended and completed individually. Work may NOT be referenced or copied in whole or in part from the Internet, book, another student/person, unauthorized resources, etc... and allowing others to view or copy your work is also NOT permitted. Students must also observe the instructor's written and verbal directions in ensuring the integrity of all academic work, including but not limited to securing mobile devices and staying in the room during entire exam period as well as only using authorized resources for additional help.
Accessing, utilizing, sharing, or posting any course work/materials using