Catalog
Calendar
Find Someone
Online Services
Maps
A-Z Index
gable.chemistry.oregonstate.edu
Experience. Explore. Discover. Achieve.
College of Science
Home
CH 231H
CH 231H General Chemistry for Honors College students (4 credits)
MWF noon-12:50 p.m., Gilb 324
Office hours:  TR 11 am-noon, Gilbert 234 (or by appointment; please refer to
my calendar
to request an open slot)
Syllabus and Course Schedule
Expectations for student workload:
This course meets for 3 50-minute lectures and one 50-minute recitation per week, and anticipates students engage in an additional 8 hours per week of outside reading, working problems from the text and online, and preparing an end-of-course Special Project.
Prerequisites/corequisites:
CH 261H (lab component, normally taken as a corequisite), one year of high school chemistry and acceptable aptitude scores. CH 121 is accepted in lieu of high school chemistry as a prerequisite for this sequence. CH 231H, CH 232H, CH 233H must be taken in order. Honors College approval required.
Measured Learning Outcomes:
When taken with CH261H, this course will meet the Student Learning Outcomes for the Physical Science with Laboratory requirement of the Baccalaureate Core.  The Student Learning Outcomes for that requirement are:
Recognize and apply concepts and theories of basic physical or biological sciences.
Apply scientific methodology and demonstrate the ability to draw conclusions based on observation, analysis, and synthesis.
Demonstrate connections with other subject areas.
Additional assessed Student Learning Outcomes for this course are:
Recognize and articulate core definitions concerning the composition of matter:  the atomic theory of matter, laws of conservation of mass and of energy, laws of constant proportion and defined composition for chemical compounds, distinction between changes in physical state and chemical composition.
Demonstrate mastery of basic mathematical skills used in chemistry: conversion between SI and common non-SI units of measurement, use of the mole as a quantity of measure, using elemental composition to define a the chemical formula of a compound, use of algebra and exponential/logarithmic math to express quantitative relationships.
Demonstrate an understanding of atomic structure and how the subatomic structure of the atom can be demonstrated, as well as the chemical consequences for assembly of the Periodic Table of the Elements, the Lewis octet rule, and elementary facets of covalent, ionic and metallic bonding.
Materials and resources
:
Text:  Petrucci, Herring, Madura & Bissonnette, "General Chemistry.  Principles and Modern Applications."  10th Edition.  ISBN 978-0-13-206452-1. Note:  the OSU Bookstore version (ISBN 978-0-13-612149-7) comes bundled with an access code to Mastering Chemistry (below).  If you purchase the hard copy separately you will need to purchase access to Mastering Chemistry.
Study guide and solutions manual for Petrucci (optional).
Mastering Chemistry (bundled with text when purchased at the OSU Bookstore; or may be purchased in a separate bundle that includes the e-text version of Petrucci).  An online problem set site; assignments will require internet access. Go to
http://www.masteringchemistry.com
and sign in; the course designator is MCGABLE41229.
Web access for in-class materials.
Course Content & Schedule
:
Week
Lecture Topics
Reading
Graded Activities
1
Matter, energy, measurement,
composition and properties of matter
Chapters 1-2
2
Chemical compounds
& nomenclature
Chapter 3
3
Chemical reactions
Chapter 4
4
Reactions in solution
Chapter 5
Midterm Exam 1
5
Thermodynamics
Chapter 7
6
Thermodynamics (continued)
7
Quantum mechanics and the atom
Chapter 8
,
Sections 1-6
Midterm Exam 2
8
Quantum mechanics and the atom
Chapter 8
,
Sections 7-12
9
10
The Periodic Table of the Elements
Chapter 9
Finals
Week
Final Exam
Wednesday, Dec 11
6 pm Gilbert 324
Evaluation of Student Performance
:  Letter grades will be assigned on the basis of performance on three activities:
Examinations (2 100-point midterms, 1 150-point comprehensive Final Exam) Exams will assess student mastery of definitions discussed in the text and during lecture, skills in mathematical calculations discussed in the text, lecture and recitation and on homework activities, and understanding of broad concepts discussed in class.  Students with emergencies on the day of the exam may be given an excused absence; in such cases the other exams will be prorated.  No early/late/makeup exams will be administered.  The Final Exam must be taken to merit a passing grade.
Online homework activity using Mastering Chemistry (10 exercises, 150 points total).
A
Special Project
(150 points).  DUE DATE:  Wednesday, Dec. 11, 6 p.m.  (electronically or in person) Students will write a 5-page (double spaced, 10-12 pt. font) paper discussing a claim either based on or testable by chemical principles that has appeared in the popular press.  The paper needs to identify the claim and its source, spell out the connection of the claim to chemistry, analyze what chemistry needs to be know to evaluate the claim, and, to the extent we have discussed that chemistry, either critically analyze the claim or establish how the claim might be supported or refuted.
Statement Regarding Students with Disabilities
"Accommodations are collaborative efforts between students, faculty and Disability Access Services (DAS). Students with accommodations approved through DAS are responsible for contacting the faculty member in charge of the course prior to or during the first week of the term to discuss accommodations. Students who believe they are eligible for accommodations but who have not yet obtained approval through DAS should contact DAS immediately at 737-4098."
Link to
Statement of Expectations for Student Conduct
, i.e., cheating policies
Oregon State University, Department of Chemistry
153 Gilbert Hall, Corvallis, OR 97331 · 541-737-6744
Contact us with your comments, questions