CSCU 353
Data Communications and Computer Networks
Title: Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach Featuring the Internet, 3/E
Author:
James F. Kurose,  Keith W. Ross
Authors Web page
Publisher: Addison-Wesley
ISBN: 0-321-22735-2
Catalog
Description:
Chapman
Syllabi
Prerequisites, CpSc 231.
This
course will explore the principles and techniques of data communications and
give special emphasis to networks and distributed systems.
The I.S.O. Reference Model for open systems interconnection will be
investigated and the function and operation of each protocol layer analyzed in
detail.
Course Objectives:
This Course will explore the principles and techniques
of data communications and give special emphasis to networks and distributed
systems. The I.S.O. Reference Model for open systems interconnection will be
investigated and the function and operation of each protocol layer analyzed.
Course Related Links
Video Week 2
Week
Description
Slides
Homework Review Questions
1
1. Computer Networks and the Internet.
Chapter 1
1, 3, 7, 11, 21
2
2. Application Layer.
Chapter 2
1, 4, 6, 10, 15, 18
3
3. Transport Layer.
Chapter 3
1, 3, 7, 8
4
4. Networking Layer & Routing.
Chapter 4
3, 8, 12, 13
5
5. Link Layer.
Chapter 5
5, 6, 7 -----
MIDTERM
6
6. Wireless & Mobility.
Chapter 6
7
7.   Multimedia.
Chapter 7
8
8. Security. and 9. Network Management.
CH 8
CH 9
9
Student Presentations
Mid Term 20%
Final Exam 30%
Homework 10%
Project 40%
(Term paper related to Data Communications or
Networks)
Topics
Book Details
Table of Contents
1. Computer Networks and the Internet.
What is the Internet?    The Network Edge.    Case History: Search for Extraterrestrial Life.    The Network Core.    Network Access and Physical Media    ISPs and Internet Backbones.    Delay and Loss in Packet-Switched Networks.    Protocol Layers and Their Service Models.    History of Computer Networking and the Internet.
2. Application Layer.
Principles of Application Layer Protocols.    The Web and HTTP.    File Transfer:FTP.    Electronic Mail in the Internet.    DNS-The Internet's Directory Service.    Socket Programming with TCP.    Socket Programming with UDP.    Building a Simple Web Server.    Content Distribution.
3. Transport Layer.
Introduction and Transport-Layer Services.    Multiplexing and Demultiplexing.    Connectionless Transport: UDP.    Principles of Reliable Data Transfer.    Connection-Oriented Transport: TCP.    Principles of Congestion Control.    TCP Congestion Control.
4. Networking Layer & Routing.
Introduction and Network Service Model.    Routing Principles.    Hierarchical Routing.    The Internet Protocol.    Routing and the Internet.    What's Inside a Router.    IPv6.    Multicast Routing.    Mobility and the Network Layer.
5. Link Layer.
Data Link Layer: Introduction and Services.    Error Detection and Correction Techniques.    Multiple Access Protocols.    LAN Addresses and ARP.    Ethernet.    Hubs, Bridges and Switches.    Wireless Links.    PPP: The Point-to-Point Protocol.    Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM).    Frame Relay.
6. Wireless & Mobility.
Introduction to Wireless and Mobility.    Wi-fi.    Mobility Principles.    Cellular Telephony.    Mobile IP.    Ad hoc Networks.
7.   Multimedia.
Multimedia Networking Applications.    Streaming Stored Audio and Video.    Making the Best of the Best-Effort Service: An INternet Phone Example.    Protocols for Real-Time Interactive Applications.    Beyond Best-Effort.    Scheduling and Policing Mechanisms.    Integrated Services.    RSVP.    Differentiated Services.
8. Security.
What is Network Security?    Principles of Cryptography.    Authentication.    Integrity.    Key Distribution and Certification.    Access Control: Firewalls.    Attacks and Countermeasures.    Security in Many Layers: Case Studies.
9. Network Management.
What is Network Management?    The Infrastructure for Network Management.    The Internet Network-Management Framework.    ASN.1.
Last UpDate:
February 23, 2007  8:23
PST