COSC-270: Artificial Intelligence
Spring 2022
Contents
Announcements
Where, When, Who
Description
Learning Goals
Policies
Schedule
Assignments and Grading
Materials: Readings, Videos, and Links
Other Interesting Links
Announcements
4/27/22: Posted the slides from the recording on
MCTS and AlphaGo
.
4/25/22: Posted the slides from the lecture on
neural networks
.
4/12/22: Posted
p5
.
3/24/22: Posted
p4
.
2/24/22: Posted
p3
.
2/15/22: Posted optional
hw1
.
2/3/22: Posted
p2
.
1/31/22: Updated the syllabus for the 4th edition.
1/18/22: Posted
p1
.
1/6/22: Added assignment dates.
10/27/21: Posted this Web site.
Where, When, Who
Class Time:
TR 2–3:15 PM
Classroom:
Walsh 497
Instructor:
Mark Maloof
Office:
325 St. Mary's Hall
Office Hours:
In person (325 STM): TR 11:00–12:30 PM; Online: M 10:30–11:30 AM, W 3:00–4:00 PM (and by appointment).
Description
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is the branch of computer science that
studies how to program computers to reason, learn, perceive, and understand.
The lecture portion of the class surveys basic and advanced concepts
and techniques of artificial intelligence, including
search,
knowledge representation,
automated reasoning,
uncertain reasoning,
and machine learning.
Specific topics include
symbolic computing,
state-space search,
game playing,
theorem proving,
rule-based systems,
Bayesian networks,
probability estimation,
rule induction,
Markov decision processes,
reinforcement learning,
and ethical and philosophical issues.
Applications of artificial intelligence are
also discussed in domains such as medicine and
computer security.
Students complete midterm and final exams, and five programming
projects using the Java programming language.
Prerequisite: Data Structures (COSC-160) and Advanced Programming (COSC-150).
Required Text:
Artificial intelligence: A modern approach
, 3rd Edition,
by Russell and Norvig.
Learning Goals
By the end of the semester, students will be able to:
explain the main philosophical stances of artificial intelligence
describe, compare, and contrast the main formalisms used in artificial intelligence
describe, compare, and contrast algorithms used in artificial intelligence for reasoning and for learning
devise and implement algorithms used in artificial intelligence for
reasoning and for learning using the Java programming language
explain the main ethical and philosophical issues in artificial
intelligence, especially that pertain to machine learning and autonomous
systems
describe and critique thought experiments that support or refute strong or general artificial intelligence
Policies
My course policies are designed to supplement the
University's
Undergraduate Honor System
and the
CS
Department's Honor Policy
.
Unless stated otherwise when I distribute an assignment, the
following is the default for all assignments for this course.
I have developed my policies from past teaching experiences and from
the
CS Department's Honor Code at George Mason University
.
I am obligated to refer all suspected cases of academic dishonesty by
undergraduate and master's students to Georgetown's
Honor Council
.
I am obligated to refer all suspected cases of academic dishonesty by
doctoral students to the dean of the Graduate School.
If you have any questions about these policies or how they apply,
please discuss such concerns with me during class, during office hours,
by e-mail, or using the class's discussion board.
In my experience, students at Georgetown do honest work.
The very small percentage of students who have submitted someone else's
work as their own did so because they did not manage their time wisely.
Students must always follow proper scholarly practice for all submitted
work, whether graded or ungraded and whether a draft or final version of
a proposal, paper, program, or problem set.
As scholars, we must acknowledge our reliance on the work of others
through citation.
You can never submit someone else's work as your own without proper
attribution.
The University assumes that students learned how to properly cite
material at their previous institutions.
If this is not the case, please let me know.
Indeed, students may be quite adept at and knowledgeable about citing and
quoting material from traditional sources, such as books and articles.
Typically, we do not have cite facts, common math formulae, or expressions
of our own ideas, observations, interpretations, and analyses,
However, students new to computer science may not realize that theorems,
proofs, algorithms, programs, and code fragments may require the same
treatment as any other form of expression.
For convenience, you do not need to cite the course materials, which
are the syllabus,
sources linked from the syllabus,
the course textbook,
the class lectures and discussion,
posts on the discussion board, and
conversations with me and the course assistants.
You must, however, cite the use of any resource that is not part of
the course materials.
Note that “the textbook” does not extend to the
textbook's Web site,
its contents,
lecture slides,
solution manuals,
code repositories, or any
other material related to the textbook.
The syllabus links to any such material pertinent for the class.
If you are unsure about what requires citation or what constitutes
proper scholarly practice, please ask me
during class,
during office hours,
by e-mail, or
using the discussion board.
I design my courses and assignments so students have what they need
to complete the assignments individually without consulting outside
resources.
I determine the size of and credit for assignments based on the
assumption that the work for them is the result of individual
effort using only the course resources and materials.
Students who use outside resources to complete assignments may not be
eligible for full credit.
Students who do not acknowledge their use of outside resources to
complete assignments may be in violation of my course policies
and the university's policies on academic integrity.
The