DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SAN DIEGO
CSE 11: Introduction to Programming and Computational Problem Solving: Accelerated Pace
Spring 2025
Syllabus
Instructor:
Ben Ochoa
Email: bochoa at ucsd.edu
Office hours: MW 5:00 PM-6:00 PM, EBU3B 3234, and at other times by appointment
TA: Sumadhwa (Sumu) Guruprasad
Email: sgurupra at ucsd.edu
TA: Shreyas Kadekodi
Email: skadekodi at ucsd.edu
TA: Hailey Li
Email: hal180 at ucsd.edu
Tutors: Sonia Fereidooni (sfereidooni at ucsd.edu), Jerry Gong (yugong
at ucsd.edu), Niroop Krishnakumar (nkrishnakumar at ucsd.edu), Jordan
Ruggles (jruggles at ucsd.edu), Neelkanth Shitolay (nshitolay at
ucsd.edu), Jacob Takesuye (jtakesuye at ucsd.edu), Luis Xu (lxxu at
ucsd.edu), Jezebel Yangari (jyangari at ucsd.edu), and Sydney Zhang
(syz001 at ucsd.edu)
TA and tutor office/lab hours:
see
Autograder
queue
calendar
Note: when emailing the instructor, TAs, or tutors about the class,
please put "CSE 11" in the subject line.
Class section ID: 860850
Lecture: MW 6:30 PM-7:50 PM, WLH 2001
Discussion: Th 8:00 PM-8:50 PM, PETER 108
This accelerated course covers introductory programming including an object-oriented approach with the Java programming language. It covers basic programming topics from CSE 8A including variables, conditionals, loops, functions/methods, structured data storage, and mutation. It also covers topics from CSE 8B including class design and use, interfaces, basic class hierarchies, recursion, error reporting with exceptions, and file I/O towards the development, testing, and debugging of more complex programs. Additionally, students will learn the basics of command-line navigation for file management and running programs.
Prerequisites: Significant prior programming experience (for example, high school AP CSA)
Collaboration Policy: It is expected that you complete your academic
assignments on your own and in your own words and code. The
assignments have been developed by the instructional team to
facilitate your learning and to provide a method for fairly evaluating
your knowledge and abilities (not the knowledge and abilities of
others). So, to facilitate learning, you are authorized to discuss
assignments with others; however, to ensure fair evaluations, you are
not authorized to use the answers developed by another, copy the work
completed by others in the past or present, or write your academic
assignments in collaboration with another person. On midterm and final
assessments, collaboration or copying of any kind is not allowed.
Academic Integrity Policy: Integrity of scholarship is essential for
an academic community. The University expects that both faculty and
students will honor this principle and in so doing protect the
validity of University intellectual work. For students, this means
that all academic work will be done by the individual to whom it is
assigned, without unauthorized aid of any kind. No student shall allow
any academic work or academic credit to be completed or obtained, in
part or in whole, for themselves by another (human or
machine/artificial intelligence).
You should not attempt to search for homework solutions online or in
sources outside of the course material. If you accidentally stumble
upon a homework solution in an outside source you must cite it in your
homework solution. If your solution proves to be too similar to the
cited one, you may lose credit on the problem; however, failure to
cite the other solution will be treated as an academic integrity
violation.
If the work you submit is determined to be other than your own, you
will be reported to the Academic Integrity Office for violating UC San Diego's
Policy on Integrity of Scholarship. In accordance with the CSE
department academic integrity guidelines, students found committing an
academic integrity violation on a homework assignment will receive a 0
on the assignment. Students found committing an academic integrity
violation on a midterm or final assessment will receive an F in the
course.
Student Conduct Policy: UC San Diego strives to maintain a climate of
fairness, cooperation, and professionalism. It is expected that you
practice basic principles, including, but not limited to, mutual
respect, civility, and decency, towards maintaining an atmosphere free
of abusive or demeaning treatment. Non-academic student misconduct
will be reported to the Center for Student Accountability, Growth, and
Education for violating UC San Diego's Principles of Community.
Grading: There will be 16 lectures requiring prelecture quizzes, 8
homework assignments, a midterm assessment, and a final assessment
weighted with the following percentages:
Prelecture quizzes: 10% (0.625% per lecture)
Assignments: 45% (3% for assignment 1; 6% for assignments 2-8).
Students must obtain an average score of at least 50% on the
assignments.  Students with an average assignment score less than 50%
will receive an F in the course.
Midterm assessment: 20%
Final assessment: 25%. Students must obtain a nonzero score on the final assessment.  Students with a zero score on the final assessment will receive an F in the course.
This course uses the standard grading scale:
96% ≤
A+
(4.0)
93% ≤
A
(4.0)
< 96%
90% ≤
A-
(3.7)
< 93%
86% ≤
B+
(3.3)
< 90%
83% ≤
B
(3.0)
< 86%
80% ≤
B-
(2.7)
< 83%
76% ≤
C+
(2.3)
< 80%
73% ≤
C
(2.0)
< 76%
70% ≤
C-
(1.7)
< 73%
60% ≤
D
(1.0)
< 70%
F
(0.0)
< 60%
Late Policy: Assignments will have a submission procedure described
with the assignment.  Assignments submitted late will receive a 15%
grade reduction for each 12 hours late (i.e., 30% per day).
Assignments will not be accepted 48 hours after the due date.  If you
require an extension (for personal reasons only) to a due date, you
must request one as far in advance as possible.  Extensions requested
close to or after the due date will only be granted for clear
emergencies or clearly unforeseeable circumstances.  You are advised
to begin working on assignments as soon as they are