{1}
##LOC[OK]##
AITS
Administrative Information Technology Services
AITS Service Desk
Application Directory
Knowledgebase
System Status
Home
About AITS
Get Help
Access
Find my Unit Security Contact (USC)
Data Warehouse Access
Unit Security Contact (USC) Website
Services
AITS Pricing for Services
Application Services
Banner and Banner Related Systems
Business Applications
Decision Support
IT Consulting Contracts
Infrastructure and Tools
Network and Desktop Services
Professional Services
Security and Access Services
Systems Overview
Reference Library
AITS Strategic Plan
Design Standards
Disaster Recovery
Gartner Research
IT Governance
IT Policies
Organizational Reports
Artificial Intelligence
AI Guidelines
Careers
AITS
»
Services
»
Decision Support
»
Help and Training
»
Training
Skip Sidebar Navigation
Help and Training
Training
DS Email Communication Lists
Getting Started
Graduate Program Application Tracking Report
Tableau Resources
Last item for navigation
Instructor-Led Training
Introduction to Data Literacy
Introduction to Data Literacy focuses on building a strong base understanding of what it means to be data literate with an emphasis on how to ethically and safely access and use data. In this course we go through data regulations, an example journey of how someone who is new at the university should obtain and use data, and discussion questions on how people have interacted with data before.
Data Literacy: Basics of Working With Data
Basics of Working with Data builds on foundational data literacy concepts by introducing participants to the practical skills needed to work with data effectively. In this course, we follow Samantha’s story as she learns how to identify data types, read metadata, clean messy data, and how to approach efficiently exploring new datasets. We also include hands-on activities to practice classifying variables, reviewing sample files, and asking better data questions. The course emphasizes responsible data use, collaboration, and understanding the full data lifecycle within a university setting.
Data Literacy: Answering Questions with Enterprise-Wide Data
In this course, you will gain exposure to available student, HR, and finance data sources, explore multiple approaches to reporting and analysis, learn how to leverage existing reports, and identify the most effective tools for your needs. Learners will develop a process for moving from a business question to a data-informed answer, selecting the right resources for their use case, and presenting findings in a way that is clear, meaningful, and appropriate for their audience.
Web Intelligence: Reporting Basics
Web Intelligence is an intuitive, advanced reporting tool available to users in both Web and Desktop interfaces. This live, instructor-led course demonstrates how to use the Web Intelligence report editor to create custom queries and reports. This course is hands-on training conducted virtually, via Zoom meeting. Topics include creating basic queries and reports, editing reports using filters, sorting, calculations, and breaks, exportable file formats, scheduling reports to run automatically, and how to share Web Intelligence documents and/or the exported data with other users.
Target Audience: First-Time & Returning Web Intelligence users
View Training Guide (PDF)
Self-Paced Resources/Training Documents
Web Intelligence: Advanced Queries
Participants will be expected to know how to create a basic query, including how to add objects to a query, build custom filters, and run queries. This course will cover: Creating multiple queries, Merge dimensions, Using Excel as a Data Source, Using wildcards in filters, and Filtering on results from another query.
Prerequisite: Web Intelligence Reporting Basics
Target Audience:  Experienced Web Intelligence users.
View Training Guide (PDF)
Finance Reporting
Overview of Finance reporting data available in Web Intelligence, including key universes and how they are used.
Target Audience: Web Intelligence users with Finance Access
View Presentation File (PDF)
Travel and Expense Reporting (Emburse Enterprise, formally known as ChromeRiver)
Overview of travel and expense reporting data, including Emburse Enterprise universes and key reporting considerations.
Target Audience: Web Intelligence users with Finance Power User Access
View Presentation File (PDF)
Student Reporting
Overview of Student reporting data and available universes in Web Intelligence.
Target Audience: Web Intelligence users with Student data access.
View Presentation File (PDF)
Human Resource Reporting
Overview of HR reporting data and related universes.
Target Audience: Web Intelligence users with HR Access
View Presentation File (PDF)
Service Desk Reporting
Overview of available Service Desk reporting data and analytics capabilities.
Target Audience:  Web Intelligence users with Service Desk Reporting data access.
View Presentation File (PDF)
Web Intelligence Reporting Assistance
Have Web Intelligence reports you wish to build but don't know where to start? Experiencing problems with your Web Intelligence reports? Have questions about data elements and reporting strategies? You can work directly with one of our data experts in your data area. Data areas include Finance Data, Human Resources Data, Student Data, and General Web Intelligence Reporting Assistance. Request assistance using our
Web Intelligence Reporting Assistance Request Form
.
Target Audience: Current Web Intelligence users
Additional Online Training Resources
Download PDF versions of our classroom training guides, watch video tutorials, and find quick tips on using Web Intelligence on our
EDDIE and Web Intelligence Resources
page.
Administrative Information Technology Services (AITS)
50 Gerty Drive, MC-673
Champaign, IL 61820-7405
AITS Contact Information
Twitter
The University of Illinois System is the flagship higher education system in the state of Illinois.
AITS Service Desk
Resources
Application Directory
Employment
Search the Kno