CS1699/2099: ML and Game Theory
Course Info
Schedule
Paper Presentations
Project
Grading
Policies
CS1699/2099 Machine Learning and Game Theory (Fall 2024)
Class time: Wednesday 6:00pm – 8:30pm
Class location: Sennott Square 5313
Instructor:
Ryan Shi
Email: ryanshi@pitt.edu
Office location: Sennott Square 5415
Office hours: By appointment on Calendly. If the times don't work for you, please send me an email with [CS1699] or [CS2099] in the title.
Course Description
This is an advanced course covering the topics at the intersection of machine learning and game theory. From auction and ads bidding to entertainment games such as Go and Poker,
from autonomous driving and traffic routing to home assistants and the Internet of Things, in many applications there is more than one agent interacting with each other.
Game theory provides a framework for analyzing the strategic interaction between multiple agents and can complement machine learning when dealing with challenges in these domains.
In the course, we will introduce how to integrate machine learning and game theory to tackle challenges in multi-agent systems.
Prerequisites
This course requires a high level of mathematical maturity - being comfortable with theory and proofs is essential. Formal prerequisites include linear algebra,
probability, algorithms, and at least one course in artificial intelligence. Familiarity with optimization is a plus but not necessary. Please see the instructor if you are
unsure whether your background is suitable for the course.
Textbooks
The course will not use any particular textbook. All reference materials will be provided on the course schedule page and Canvas.
Course Schedule (Subject to Change)
#
Date
Topic
References
1
8/28/24
Intro to Mathematical Optimization
How does AI help address food security in our local community?
Applied Mathematical Programming, Chp 2,4,9
Improving Efficiency of Volunteer-Based Food Rescue Operations
A Recommender System for Crowdsourcing Food Rescue Platforms
2
9/4/24
Intro to Game Theory
How does AI protect wildlife and public infrastructure from attackers?
Deployed ARMOR Protection: The Application of a Game Theoretic Model for Security at the Los Angeles International Airport
Optimal Patrol Strategy for Protecting Moving Targets with Multiple Mobile Resources
When Security Games Go Green: Designing Defender Strategies to Prevent Poaching and Illegal Fishing
Deploying PAWS: Field Optimization of the Protection Assistant for Wildlife Security
Multiagent Systems: Algorithmic, Game-Theoretic, and Logical Foundations, Chp 3-6
3
9/11/24
Learning Game Parameters
How to make game theory more realistic?
Improving resource allocation strategies against human adversaries in security games: An extended study;
Analyzing the effectiveness of adversary modeling in security games
Learning Payoff Functions in Infinite Games
What Game Are We Playing? End-to-end Learning in Normal and Extensive Form Games
4
9/18/24
Online Learning, Online Convex Optimization
A case for why ML and game theory are instrinsically connected.
Online Learning and Online Convex Optimization
, Chp 1-3
Multiagent Systems: Algorithmic, Game-Theoretic, and Logical Foundations
, Chp 7
Regret Minimization in Games with Incomplete Information
5
9/25/24
Intro to Reinforcement Learning
ML is needed as game trees become larger.
Reinforcement Learning: An Introduction
, Ch. 3, 6, 13
6
10/2/24
Classical Algorithms for Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL)
How does AI play Dota?
Multiagent Systems: Algorithmic, Game-Theoretic, and Logical Foundations
, Chp 7
An Analysis of Stochastic Game Theory for Multiagent Reinforcement Learning
Value-function reinforcement learning in Markov Games
Multiagent learning using a variable learning rate
7
10/9/24
Policy-Based Methods in MARL
Value-Based Methods for Cooperative MARL
Multi-Agent Actor-Critic for Mixed Cooperative-Competitive Environments
Counterfactual Multi-Agent Policy Gradients
Learning with opponent-learning awareness
Value-Decomposition Networks For Cooperative Multi-Agent Learning
QMIX:Monotonic Value Function Factorisation for Deep Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning
QTRAN: Learning to factorize with transformation for cooperative multi-agent reinforcement learning
8
10/16/24
Double Oracle and League Training in MARL
How does AI play StarCraft?
A Double Oracle Algorithm for Zero-Sum Security Games on Graphs
A Unified Game-Theoretic Approach to Multiagent Reinforcement Learning
Deep Reinforcement Learning for Green Security Games with Real-Time Information
Grandmaster level in StarCraft II using multi-agent reinforcement learning
9
10/23/24
Learning to Play Large Zero-Sum Games with Perfect Information
How does AI play chess and go?
Mastering the game of go without human knowledge
Mastering Chess and Shogi by Self-Play with a General Reinforcement Learning Algorithm
10
10/30/24
Learning to Play Large Games with Imperfect Information
How does AI play poker?
Fictitious Self-Play in Extensive-Form Games
Deep Reinforcement Learning from Self-Play in Imperfect-Information Games
DeepFP for Finding Nash Equilibrium in Continuous Action Spaces
DeepStack: Expert-level artificial intelligence in heads-up no-limit poker
Superhuman AI for heads-up no-limit poker: Libratus beats top professionals
Superhuman AI for multiplayer poker
Monte Carlo sampling for regret minimization in extensive games
11
11/6/24
Transformer in Multi-agent Decision-Making Setting
"Is transformer all you need?"
Multi-agent reinforcement learning is a sequence modeling problem
12
11/13/24
Combining Language Models with Strategic Reasoning
How does AI play your favorite party games?
Human-level play in the game of Diplomacy by combining language models with strategic reasoning
Strategic Reasoning with Language Models
Language Agents with Reinforcement Learning for Strategic Play in the Werewolf Game
13
11/20/24
Real-world applications of MARL
"Looking at some 'real' applications"
Efficient large-scale fleet ma