UMCP (CMSC132)
Syllabus
Schedule
Office Hours
Projects
Resources
Eclipse
Submit Server
Grades Server
Piazza
Exams
Quizzes
Grading Concerns
Lecture Videos
Frequently Seen Mistakes
Other
CMSC132 (Spring 2025) - Object-Oriented Programming II
Syllabus
Introduction
Object-Oriented Programming II
is a
second programming course for Computer Science majors with
a focus on object-oriented programming. The goal of the course is to
develop skills such as program design and testing as well as the
implementation of programs using a graphical IDE. All programming
will be done in Java.
Prerequisites
Prerequisite
→ C- or better in CMSC131
and MATH 140
Credits
→ 4
Coordinators
Name
Office Number
Pedram Sadeghian
IRB 2214
Textbook (Not Required)
Title
Authors
ISBN
Type
Data Structures & Abstractions with Java, 5
th
Edition
Carrano, Henry
9780134831695
Recommended
Course Topics (Subject to Change)
Object-oriented software development
Software life cycle
Requirements & specifications
Designing objects & classes
Testing & code coverage
Programming paradigms
Design patterns
Algorithms & data structures
Asymptotic efficiency
Lists, stacks, queues
Trees, heaps
Sets, maps, graphs
Recursion
Programming skills
Inheritance in Java
Java collection framework
Threads, synchronization
Exceptions
Grading
30%
Projects
15%
Quizzes
30%
Semester Exams (3), (10%, 10% and 10%)
25%
Final Exam
Once we have graded any class material (e.g., exams, projects, etc.)
we will post an announcement and a deadline by which you must submit
any regrade request (if necessary).
It is your responsibility
to submit regrade requests by the specified deadline; no regrade
requests will be processed afterwards.
Projects
Deadlines
-
All projects are due at
11:30 pm
on the specified day
in the project description. You have until
11:30 pm
of
the next day to submit your project with a
12%
penalty. Notice that after the late period, you will not receive
any points for your project.
For example,
if a project is due on Wednesday at 11:30 pm, you have until Thursday
at 11:30 pm to submit a late project with a 12% penalty. Any submission
after Thursday 11:30 pm will receive 0 pts.
Please do not send an email asking for an exception because you turned it in a "few minutes late". If the server says it is late or passed the deadline, that will be the time that will be used to calculate your grade.
Submit Server
-
You need to use the
submit server
for project
submissions. We will not accept projects submitted otherwise (e.g.,
e-mail, etc.). Notice that we use the submit server results to
compute a significant portion of your project's grade. You need to
make sure that your project works in the submit server, otherwise you
will not get any credit.  Even if it works on your local machine, log into the submit server and make sure it works in the server.
Which Project Gets Graded
-
We will grade the project submission with the highest submit server score after the late penalty (if any) has been applied. As you can submit as often as you want, you might have more than one submission with the same high score. In that case, your last such submission will be used for grading by the TA. Your actual project grade recorded in the grade server may be lower than the submit server score if manual deductions are made by the grading TA. Please follow all rules from the start of the projects as the TAs will only grade the one submission downloaded by the server (as described above). In other words, you can not pick and choose what you want the TA to grade for the manual grading portion.
Closed Projects
-
All programming assignments in this course are to be written individually (unless explicitly indicated otherwise). Cooperation between students, using old projects from former students, using the web to find code, or AI use to develop your code, are all violations of the Code of Academic Integrity. We take this very seriously and will report you to the Office of Student Conduct.
Regarding Posting of Project Implementations
Do not post your assignments' implementation online (e.g.,
GitHub, PasteBin) where they can be seen by others. Making your
code accessible to others can lead to academic integrity violations.
Posting of your projects in a private repository where only selected
people (e.g., potential employers) can see them is OK. Just make
sure is not a public site.
Even if the course is over, do not make your code publicly available
to others.
We constantly monitor online sources.
TA Office Hours
Office hours get extremely busy the day before a project deadline.
Therefore do not wait to start your projects. Regarding office
hours:
Once you have been helped by a TA please allow the TA to move on to help another student. We
have a large number of students in all of our classes and we need TAs to be available to address as many questions as possible.
A TA can spend at most 10 minutes with a student if other students need help.
When you meet with a TA, please be ready to ask specific question(s).  Just telling the TA that your code does not work is not a specific question.  Remember, that it is ultimately YOUR responsibilty to debug your code.  The TA will try to point you in the correct direction, but we can not guarantee that your issue will be fully resolved after meeting with a TA.
Once you have been seen by a TA, you must leave the TA area. You can not stay around in the TA office hour space to continue to work on your project as we need the space for students that are currently being helped by a TA or waiting to be seen. TAs will be asked to report students that do not follow this rule.
If you have a basic question, for example if you need clarification on the project requirement, just post in Piazza.  Please allow us to reserve office hour time for students that have specific questions about the code they have written.
Backups
You need to keep backups of your projects as you develop them. No extensions will be granted because you accidentally erased your project or due