CS109B
Syllabus
Schedule
Materials
Modules
FAQ
Preparing for this course
Syllabus
Draft Syllabus Subject to Change
Advanced Topics in Data Science (Spring 2022)
CS 109b, AC 209b, Stat 121b, or CSCI E-109b
Instructors
Pavlos Protopapas
(SEAS) &
Mark Glickman
(Statistics)
Lectures:
Mon & Wed 9:45‐11am SEC 1.321
Labs:
Fri 9:45-11am SEC 1.321
Advanced Sections:
Wed 2:15-3:30pm SEC 1.321 (starting 2/2; see schedule for specific dates)
Office Hours:
See Ed Post
Prerequisites:
CS 109a, AC 209a, Stat 121a, or CSCI E-109a or the equivalent.
Course description
Tentative Course Topics
Course Objectives
Course Components
Lectures
Labs
Advanced Sections
Midterm
Projects
Homework Assignments
Course Resources
Online Materials
Recommended Textbooks & Articles
Getting Help
Course Policies and Expectations
Grading
Collaboration Policy
Late or Incorrectly Submitted Assignments
Re-grade Requests
Auditing the Class
Academic Integrity
Accommodations for students with disabilities
Diversity and Inclusion Statement
Course Description
Advanced Topics in Data Science (CS109b) is the second half of a one-year introduction to data science.
Building upon the material in Introduction to Data Science, the course introduces advanced methods for data wrangling, data visualization, statistical modeling, and prediction.
Topics include big data, multiple deep learning architectures such as CNNs, RNNs, language models, transformers, autoencoders, and generative models as well as  Bayesian modeling, sampling methods, and unsupervised learning.
The programming language will be Python.
Tentative Course Topics
Unsupervised Learning, Clustering
Bayesian Inference
Hierarchical Bayesian Modeling
Fully Connected Neural Networks
Convolutional Neural Networks
Autoencoders
Recurrent Neural Networks
NLP / Text Analysis
Transformers
Variational AutoEncoders & Generative Models
Generative Adversarial Networks
Course Objectives
Upon successful completion of this course, you should feel comfortable with the material mentioned above, and you will have gained experience working with others on real-world problems. The content knowledge, the project, and teamwork will prepare you for the professional world or further studies.
Course Components
Lectures, labs, and advanced sections will be live-streamed for Extension School students and can be accessed through the Zoom section on Canvas.
Video recordings of the live stream will be made available to all students within 24 hours after the event, and will be accessible from the Lecture Video section on Canvas.
Lectures
The class meets for lectures twice a week (M & W). Attending and participating in lectures is a crucial component of learning the material presented in this course. Students may be asked to complete short readings before certain lectures. Some lectures will also include real-time coding exercises which we will complete as a class.
Labs
Lab will be held every Friday. Labs will present guided, hands-on coding challenges to prepare students for successfully completing the homework assignments.
Advanced Sections
The course will include advanced sections for 209b students and will cover a different topic per week.  These 75 min sessions will cover advanced topics like the mathematical underpinnings of the methods seen in the main course lectures and lab as well as extensions of those methods.  The material covered in the advanced sections is
required
for all AC209b students. Tentative topics are:
Gaussian Mixture Models
Particle Filters/Sequential Monte Carlo
NN as Universal Approximator
Solvers
Segmentation Techniques, YOLO, Unet and M-RCNN
Variational Autoencoders
Word2Vec
BERT
GANS, Cycle GANS, etc.
Note: Advanced Section are not held every week. Consult the course calendar for exact dates.
Midterm
There will be a midterm exam on Friday, March 25th from 9:45-11am (regular lab time). The exam will likely consist of multiple choice questions with a take-home coding component. More information to follow.
Projects
Beginning the last week of classes (4/25), students will join groups of 3-4 and be divided into break-out, thematic sections to study an open problem in one of various domains. The domains are tentative at the moment but may include medicine, law, astronomy, e-commerce, government, and areas in the humanities. Each section will include lectures by Harvard faculty who are experts in the field. Project work will continue on through reading period and conclude with final submissions on 5/6. The final submission will consist of a written report, a Jupyter notebook with all relevant code, and a 6-minute, pre-recorded presentation video.
Homework Assignments
There will be 7 graded homework assignments. Some of them will be due one week after being assigned and some will be due two weeks after being assigned. For 5 assignments, you have the option to work and submit in pairs, the 2 remaining are to be completed individually.
Standard assignments are graded out of 5 points.
AC209b students will have additional homework content for most assignments worth 1 point.
Course Resources
Online Materials
All course materials, including lecture notes, lab notes, and section notes will be published on Ed, the course GitHub repo, and the public site's 'Materials' section.
Note:
Lecture content for lectures 1-7 will only be accessible to registered students.
Assignments will only be posted on Canvas.
Working Environment
You will be working in Jupyter Notebooks which you can run in your own machine or in the SEAS JupyterHub.
Recommended Textbooks
ISLR:
An Introduction to Statistical Learning
by James, Witten, Hastie, Tibshirani (Springer:  New York, 2013)
BDA3:
Bayesian Data Analysis
by Andrew Gelman, John B. Carlin, Hal S. Stern, David B. Dunson, Aki Vehtari, Donald B. Rubin (CRC Press:  New York, 2013)
DL:
Deep Learning
by Goodfellow, Bengio and Courville. (The MIT Press: Cambridge, 2016)
Glassner:
Deep Learning, Vol. 1 & 2
by Andrew Glassner
SLP
Speech and Language Processing
by Jurafsky and Marti