CSCI 221: CS Fundamentals II
This is a second course in computer science that serves as an
introduction to computer systems fundamentals and provides its students
a transition to advanced programming. We introduce students to how
programming systems are constructed— from transistors, to logic gates
and registers, through an instruction set architecture, to the runtime
system of C and C++ programs. This is a dense survey so students gain
maturity in how programs actually execute on computer systems. This has
value in two ways (1) it gives them a realistic sense of the performance
and optimization of programs, and (2) it provides a foundation for
thinking about the tools and systems they might someday construct
themselves. Furthermore, learning these fundamentals is useful for
understanding the various security vulnerabilities that arise in our
current hardware and software infrastructure.
The course also serves as an introduction to C programming and to
modern object-oriented programming in C++. To master these languages, we
cover techniques for structuring code and representing data, including
using standard object libraries and widely adopted idioms for careful
management of object heap data, and of a program’s references to it.
There will be significant programming projects in C, MIPS assembly,
and C++ as well as logic circuit construction in a logic circuit
simulator. Program development tools including the Unix command line and
editors, compilers, building and debugging tools, and repositories for
version control and sharing will also be covered. We meet once a week
(Tuesday) for lab exercises, have weekly homeworks (assigned either
Wednesday or Thursday, due Wednesday), and have several longer term
programming projects usually due every third or fourth week.
Prerequisite:
CSCI 121 or the equivalent.
Lecture:
MW 3:00-4:20pm in TRL 150/Zoom.
Labs:
• Section FL1 8:50-10:10am in ETC 211 when possible, over Zoom
otherwise.
• Section FL2 10:25-11:45am in ETC 211 when possible, over Zoom
otherwise.
• Section FL3 3:15-4:35pm over Zoom.
Instructor:
Jim Fix
jimfix@reed.edu
Zoom hours:
M 5-6:30pm, F 2:30-4pm
Teaching assistants (grading and tutoring):
• Ariel Flaster,
flastera@reed.edu
• Henry Lindeman,
henlindem@reed.edu
• Eli Poppele,
poppelee@reed.edu
• Ryan Quisenberry,
quisenry@reed.edu
Schedule Overview
Part I:
C programming and low-level data structure
design. (4 weeks)
Part II:
Logic circuits, processor design, and
machine-level programming. (4 weeks)
Part III:
Object-oriented programming and memory
management in C++. (5 weeks)
This schedule is
detailed below.
Texts and Resources
The course draws on material from written texts and also on-line, and
we will share references to these throughout the semester. Most reading
will not be required—your main goal is to work with the lecture and lab
materials to complete the assignments— but you will find it useful to
consult references on the technical material and also to do some
background reading on the topics we cover.
We encourage you to consult the following texts during the semester.
The first four C++ books are often required in courses, the first two
are references to the language, the third is an attempt by the C++
author to write a programming textbook, and the fourth’s goals seem to
be a mash-up of the first three’s, but not written by the language
inventor. The two following texts are each a nice overview of the
non-C++ components of the course, giving a tour of how computer systems
are constructed from the transitor level to the C/C++ language level.
The last is an advanced text on digital circuit logic, but some of you
might just enjoy delving into the deep details.
I don’t
require
texts, since many people are good at picking
up languages without a text, and there are also lots of reference
materials available on C++ on-line.
Recommended Texts
A TOUR OF
C++
by Bjarne Stroustrup
.
This is a brief reference to many aspects of the C++ language from the
language inventor. Get this if you like carrying around a small book
rather than searching for info on-line.
THE C++
PROGRAMMING LANGUAGE
by Bjarne Stroustrup.
This is a (the?) comprehensive reference text on the C++ language from
the language inventor. It’s a big text, but it has a lot in it. It
contains the
TOUR
(above) within it.
**
PROGRAMMING:
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE USING C++
by Bjarne Stroustrup.
This seems to be available through the
O’Reilly
Education
portal
through Reed’s library catalog. It contains
more programming advice and philosophy than the two references
above.
C++
PRIMER
by Stanley Lippman and others.
I personally think that Stroustrup’s guides to C++ can be tricky to
read, and his writing has its strengths and its weaknesses. This is an
alternative written by authors. This is often a primary text for C++
courses, including for a course I helped teach in the 90s (with an older
edition).
Optional Additional Texts
THE
ELEMENTS OF COMPUTING SYSTEMS:
BUILDING A MODERN COMPUTER FROM FIRST PRINCIPLES
by Noam Nisan and Shimon Shocken.
Useful side-reading to give you more perspective and context on the work
we do this semester.
INTRODUCTION
TO COMPUTING SYSTEMS:
FROM BITS & GATES TO C & BEYOND
by Yale Patt and Sanjay Patel.
Siimilar to the above but with additional depth.
Fundamentals
of Digital Logic
by Stephen Brown and Zvonko Vranesic.
This is a rich supplement, a text for digital design junior-level
computer engineering courses. We only look at circuits and processors
briefly, for three weeks. Probably half of this book would be used for a
semester-long course.
In addition, here are some links for the tools we will use this
semester: •
Unix
command-line
: how we compile and run C/C++ programs.
•
Git repository
for saving and
submitting work.
• Editors for program development, listed below.
Cheat sheets
for using these abound.
…
VIM
…
Emacs
or
nano
…
Atom
…
Sublime Text
*
repl.it
: an on-line
(collaborative) IDE for C++
•
LogiSim
a (now outdated)
Java program for simulat