CS6220 Big
Data Systems and Analytics
(Fall
2020)
Welcome to cs6220. There will be no attendance requirement for this course in the fall 2020 semester due to the current context of COVID-19, which makes the campus environment unsafe and puts the health and lives of our students and their families are at risk. As instructor, I will make my best effort to provide you the experiences that are closer to the face-to-face learning. I am open to suggestions and discussions from students on Canvas.
|
General
|
Description
|
Grading
|
Important Dates
|
Introduction
|
Schedule
& Notes
|
Project
|
Technology
Review
|
Course
Readings
|
FAQ
|
GT Calendar
|
General
Information
Instructor:
Professor
Ling Liu
Office:
KACB 3340,
Phone:
5-1139,
Email:
lingliu
AT cc
DOT
gatech
DOT
edu
Lecture:
2pm - 3:15pm TR; Klaus 2443 (Aug. 17 - Dec. 10, Lectures ending on Nov. 24)
Office hours:
TR 3:15pm - 4:15pm or by appointment
Course TA:
Stacey Truex
,
Wenqi Wei
Office hours:
by appointment
Course Objectives
and Description
Data
has been the No. 1 fast growing phenomenon on the Internet for the last decade.
Big data demands both high performance computing and elastic utility driven
computing. Big data analytics holds the potential to reveal deep insights such
as social influence among customers by analyzing business transactions, user-generated
feedback ratings, social and geographical data. In the past 40 years, data was
primarily used to record and report business activities and scientific events,
and in the next 40 years data will be used also to derive new insights, to
influence business decisions and to accelerate scientific discovery. One of the
key challenges is to provide the right platforms and tools to make reasoning of
big data easy and simple. Another key challenge is to revolutionize the ways of
collecting, processing and analyzing the massive data that exceeds the
processing capacity of existing computing systems. Big data education
should cover big data systems, big data algorithms, big data technology, big data programming, big data applications
from both research and development perspectives.
This
course reviews concepts, techniques,
algorithms
and
systems issues in big data education and research, with strong emphasis on
systems and analytics, and explores big data opportunities from a variety of science
and engineering applications, and examine various research problems and challenges
that are critical for developing big data systems and big data applications.
Main topics to be covered include but not limited to: fundamentals
of data storage systems and optimizations, fundamentals of data mining and knowledge discovery,
fundamentals of big data aware computing systems and software design, fundamentals
of cluster computing and distributed file systems, fundamentals of
geographically distributed data intensive systems.
We
will also cover big data applications that pose new challenges to big data systems and analytics, such as healthcare,
mobile commerce, social media, Internet of Things, software defined computing, cyber manufacturing, cyber-physical systems, to name a few. This course is designed to provide the fundamental training for big data scientists from high performance big data computing systems, to big data applications and big data analysis and management algorithms, and to look beyond the present status of the Big
Data and conjecture what possible future technologies and applications will
evolve. The course will include a significant project component that will
typically require Java/C++/CGI/HTML5 programming.
Prerequisites:
Students are expected to have taken Operating Systems (CS2200 or equivalent)
and Introduction to database systems (CS 4400/6400 or equivalent). In addition,
students are expected to have a solid grasp of Java/C/C++/CGI programming.
Sockets programming is not required but desirable.
A
detailed description of course structure and administration can be found in
Course
Introduction
.
Grading
Grades will be computed using the
tentative weighting scheme below:
Class Participation
: 0% (due to COVID-19)
Homework Assignments
: 32% (8% each assignment)
Project
: 50%
Technology Review
: 18%
The grading
policy can be found in the
Course
Introduction
and
FAQ
(
Important!
Read Me
).
Important Dates
All due dates are on Friday midnight, with no penalty graceful extension to 9am Saturday.
Weeks 2-3
Assignment 1: post on Week 2 Sunday, Due on Week3 (Friday midnight)
Project team formation due on Wiki signup: Week 3 Friday midnight
Weeks 4-5
Assignment 2: post on Week 4 Sunday, Due on Week 5 (Friday midnight)
Signup proposal team meeting with professor on Wiki for Monday of Sept 30.
Week 6
Project Proposal due: Week 6 (Friday midnight)
Weeks 7-8
Assignment 3: post on Week 7 Sunday, Due on Week 8 (Friday midnight)
Signup workshop presentation + project demo meeting with professor on Wiki (due Friday midnight on Week 8).
Fall Recess week (Oct 14-15): no homework on Week 9
Weeks 10-11
:
Assignment 4: post on Week 10 Sunday, Due onWeek 11 (Friday midnight)
Weeks 13-15
:
course project workshop presentations
Week 15
:
Demo with Professor in the CERCS small conf room near Professor's office KACB 3340.
Due to COVID-19, demo will be done remotely and more instruction in the first week of fall 2020 semester.
Final Exam
:
Technology Review (Take home exam) due 5:30pm with graceful extension till midnight of the final exam day on Canvas.
Homework Assignments
There are a total of 4 homework assignments and on average one assignment every 2 weeks. Usually each assignment is posted 2-3 weeks before its due date. Each assignment requires a student to choose from two types of assignments: reading based or programing based.
For reading based assignment, each student should read 2 papers in the same subject area of big data research
and write one critique / reading summary for the two papers you read. Preferably, the two papers you choose to read
are relevant to the lecture topics covered during the