CSE-404: Introduction to Machine Learning
Spring 2023
Time & Place.
Tu/Th, 12:40-2:00 pm (ET), Hubbard Hall G28.
Instructor.
Parisa Kordjamshidi
, Office hours: Tue/Thu 2:00-2:45pm or Email for appointment.
Teaching Assistant.
Haitian Yan,
Office hours: Thursdays 6:00-8:00pm.
Teaching Assistant.
Tanawan Premsri,
Office hours: Wednesdays 2:00-4:00pm.
Course Calendar
Description
Topics
Evaluation
References
Prerequisites
Course slides/material
Discussions on Piazza
D2L platform
Acknowledgments
Course Description
This course provides an introduction to machine learning to undergraduate students.
The goal of this course is to understand the foundation of machine learning and learn to design, evaluate and use Machine Learning in solving real-world problems.
We study a variety of learning algorithms and techniques. We will discuss mostly supervised techniques including decision trees, kNN, rule based learning, on-line learning, (Deep) neural networks, support vector machines, probabilistic approaches as well as unspurvised learning and clustering techniques.
We learn designing a end-to-end machine learning models when starting from raw data, working on preprocessing, extracting features, learning represetnations, designing various model configurations, and evaluation.
Topics to be covered
Introduction to Machine Learning
Concept Learning General-To-Specific
Learning Rules
Decision Trees
Neural Networks
Deep Neural Networks
Support Vector Machines
Probabilistic Models
Similarity-based Models
Experimental Evaluation
Computational Learning Theory
Ensemble Learning, Boosting
Clustering
Course Evaluation
Final exam (20%)
MidTerm exam (20%)
Homework (25%)
Quizzes (15%)
Project (17%)
Attendance (3%)
Grading scheme:
90-100 => 4; 85-90 => 3.5; 80-85=> 3; 75-80 => 2.5; 70-75 => 2; 65-70=> 1.5; 59-65=> 1; Total<58 => Fail/0.
References
Tom Mitchell,
Machine Learning
(McGraw Hill 1997)
C. M. Bishop,
Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning
(Springer 2006)
Shalev-Shwartz and Ben-David,
Understanding Machine Learning, From Theory to Algorithms
(Cambridge Press 2014)
Prerequisites
Students are required to have taken discrete math and some programming courses to be able to register for this course, a class in linear algebra, in probability and statistics and a basic class in theory of computation and algorithms would be extremely helpful for being successful in this course. Moreover, the students are expected to be fluent in at least one programming language to be able to conduct the project.
Some useful resources for prerequisites
Linear Algebra
Zico Kolter,
Linear Algebra Review and Reference
Linear Algebra and Matrices
Probability and Statistics
Arian Maleki and Tom Do,
Review of Probability Theory
David Blei,
Some Probability and Statistics
Propositional Logic
Lecture from Logic in Computer Science, University of Liverpool,
Propositional Logic
Lecture from CMU course,
Propositional Logic
Acknowledgment
Most of the course material has been adapted from the following resources:
CS446: Machine Learning
, by Dan Roth.
Some homeworks adapted from
Machine Learning and Inductive Inference
, by Hendrik Blockeel.
These very nice
slides and tutorials
, by Andrew W. Moore.