General information
Course Logistics
Instructor:
Simon S. Du
Teaching Assistant:
Runjia Li
,
Ruizhe Shi
Lecture time and place:
Tuesday, Thursday   11:30 -- 12:50 PM,
ECE
045 or Zoom (see
lecture schedule
)
Office Hours:
Simon S. Du: Tuesday 10:00 - 11:00 AM in person (Gates 312)
Runjia Li: Wednesday 10:00 - 11:00 AM in person (Gates 152)
Ruizhe Shi: Tusday 16:00 - 17:00 PM in person (Gates 151)
Zoom links are on Canvas
Ed Discussion
About the Course, Prerequisites and Grading
Deep learning is a broad class of machine learning methods based on neural networks, has become the central paradigm of machine learning.
This course aims to introduce recent and exciting developments in deep learning.
The focus is on the algorithmic and theoretical aspects of deep learning.
Prerequisites:
This is an advanced graduate course, designed for Ph.D. level students, and will assume a substantial degree of mathematical maturity.
Students entering the class should be comfortable with programming and should have a working knowledge of linear algebra (MATH 308), vector calculus (MATH 126), probability and statistics (CSE 312/STAT390), algorithms, and machine learning (CSE 446/546).
Grading:
Your grade will be based on 2 homework assignments: HW1 (20%), HW2 (20%), a project proposal (5%), a project presentation (20%), and a final project report (35%)
Homework
There are two homework, which will be released on Canvas.
You have
two late days.
Homework must be typed. You can use any typesetting software you wish (latex, markdown, ms word, etc).
You may discuss assignments with others, but you must write down the solutions by yourself.
We follow the standard
UW CSE policy
for academic integrity.
Tentative timeline:
First homework release: October 9th. First homework due: October 23rd.
Second homework release: October 23rd. Second homework due: November 6th.
Course project
Projects should be done in groups of 2-4, with the intention of exploring one direction in greater detail. You can use Ed Discussion to form a group. The projects can be either a literature review or original research. For literature review, you do not need to reimplement algorithms.
We list ideas for a few project topics on Canvas. It is okay to do projects on topic not listed.
Timeline:
Proposal (due date: October 9th): submit a short report (1 - 1.5 pages) stating the papers you plan to survey or the research problems that you plan to work on. Describe why they are interesting and provide a list of appropriate references. You are encouraged to connect this project with your current research.
Presentation (December 2nd and December 4th): details on Canvas.
Final report (due data: December 12th): You are expected to submit a written project report (~8pages) describing your findings.
Format:
You must use the
NeurIPS Latex format.