CSCE 790 Section 1: Advanced Topics in Probabilistic Graphical Models
Instructor:
Marco Valtorta
Office:
INNOVA 2269, 777-4641
E-mail:
mgv@cse.sc.edu
Office Hours:
M 1500-1800.  Please check by phone or email.  Others by
appointment.
Meeting Time and Place:
TTH 1140-1255,
SWGN 2A15.
Bulletin Description:
Topics in Information Technology.
Reading and research on selected topics in information technology.
Course content varies and will be announced in the schedule of courses
by suffix and title. May be repeated for credit as topics vary.
Prerequisites:
Graduate Standing in Computer Science, Mathematics, Statistics, or
permission of the instructor.
Students from these three disciplines will be asked to
contribute according to their background and interests.  For example, a
computer science student may be asked to explain the implementation of a
Bayesian network learning algorithm in an R package; a statistics student may
be asked to present a paper on the parametric variant of an
inference algorithm, and a mathematics student may be asked to
present a paper that describes the
algebraic structure of a local computation framework.
Course Learning Outcomes
.  The overall goal of the
course is to prepare students to carry out research in
probabilistic graphical models.
Specifically, by the end of this course, the student will be able to:
Use the Hugin Bayesian network and influence diagram tool to
construct Bayesian networks.
Compare and contrast key algorithms for belief propagation in
Bayesian networks based on local computation and relate them to a common
algebraic foundation.
Apply and explain
variable elimination and several version of the junction
tree methods at a detailed algorithmic level.
Explain and justify the interventional model of causality.
Apply Pearl's do-calculus of
intervention, prove its properties,
and describe its limitations in the parametric case.
Compare and contrast the Markov properties of
advanced probabilistic graphical models, such as chain graphs and
ancestral graphs, and explain the uses of such models,
with special focus on causal modeling.
Explain the properties and limitations of structural learning
algorithms for Bayesian networks, under the assumption of faithfulness (PC
algorithm and its variants) and embedded faithfulness (FCI
algorithm and its variants).
Use a few key R packages for inference, learning, and causal modeling.
Reasonable accommodations are available for
students with a
documented disability
. If you have a disability and may need
accommodations to fully participate in this class, contact the
Office of Student Disability Services: 777-6142, TDD 777-6744,
email sasds@mailbox.sc.edu, or stop by LeConte College Room 112A.
All accommodations must be approved through the Office of Student
Disability Services.
Grading Policy
Time Allocation Framework
Lecture Log
Lecture Notes
Introductory PowerPoint Slides
Slides for the Introductory Examples
Presentations
Videos
from the
spring 2009 version of CSCE 582, which may be useful to catch up on
background notions.
Lecture Notes
from the spring 2009 version of CSCE 582, which may be useful for
background notions.
For example:
The pdf slides for Ch.1 [J07] have a good presentation of pointwise
table operations in the context of probability computation
The pdf slides for Ch.2 [J07] define evidence as a vector of zeros and
ones.
The transcript of notes of 2009-01-30 has a proof of the chain rules for
Bayesian networks.
Notes on Non-Serial Dynamic
Programming (NSDP)
used on 2019-02-19.
This set of slides
includes
a presentation of variable elimination using relational algebra (slides
38-41), as used on 2019-02-19.