Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty / Staff
Alumni
Parents
Directory
Contact Us
Apply
Make a Gift
Toggle search
Toggle navigation
Office of the Vice Provost for Academic Affairs
Student Services
Faculty Services
Administrative Services
About Our Office
Contact Us
Campus Community Career Collaborative
Ball State University
Home
Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty / Staff
Alumni
Parents
Directory
Contact Us
Apply
Make a Gift
Search Button
Office of the Vice Provost for Academic Affairs
Open for More Navigation
Open for More Navigation
Office of the Vice Provost for Academic Affairs
Faculty Services
Academic Advising
Academic Calendar
Academic Integrity
Attendance Policies
Campus Community Career Collaborative
Campus Map
Classroom Civility and Shared Accountability
Creative Teaching Grant
EAB Navigate Faculty Support
Emergency Preparedness and Response Guidelines
Explore Muncie
Faculty Awards and Recognition
Faculty and Professional Personnel Handbook
Faculty Excellence Center
Faculty Mentors Network
Faculty Success
Grade Appeals
High Impact Practices (HIPs)
Immersive Learning
MAC Academic Leadership Development Program (ALDP)
MAC ALDP Nominations (PDF)
Organizational Chart for Academic Affairs (PDF)
Professional Development
Relocation Information
Research Consulting
Strategic Plan
Student Conduct
Student Philanthropy
Student Ratings of Instruction (Course Evaluations)
Syllabus Resources
Teacher-Scholar Program
Virginia B. Ball Center for Creative Inquiry
Welcome to Muncie (PDF)
Syllabus Resources
About Ball State
Administrative Offices
Office of the Vice Provost for Academic Affairs
Faculty Services
Syllabus Resources
Instructors are expected to have a syllabus for the courses they teach. A syllabus is where students learn about the course, the instructor, and the instructor's expectations. This page contains information to make the syllabus an effective learning tool that complies with University policies.
Due to recent legislation, faculty members are required to post a syllabus for each course they are teaching. At BSU these syllabi will be posted by pulling them from
Watermark’s
Faculty Success
platform
. Everyone who teaches a course, including part-time and adjunct instructors, will have a space in Watermark’s
Faculty Success
to upload their syllabi.  Faculty members should upload a version of each Spring 2026 syllabus that is appropriate for public posting.
Guidance for content of publicly accessible syllabi:
Suggested guidelines (not requirements) for syllabi content based on good pedagogical practices
PDF version
Word version
The only
required
syllabus statements and policy are the University Statement, the Disability Statement, and the individual faculty's attendance policy (point 6 of the above document).
We recommend that faculty use the primary syllabus on file in their unit as a starting point.
Faculty’s syllabi should include essential information for points 1-6. Faculty have discretion over the level of detail provided.
Faculty should avoid listing personal information such as cell phone numbers in publicly posted syllabi.
For points 7 and 8, faculty should select (copy verbatim or revise as needed) only information that fits their course and pedagogical goals.
Information about uploading publicly accessible syllabi to Watermark Faculty Success:
Only syllabi for the current semester will be published publicly.
Deadline for uploading Summer 2026 (all terms) syllabi
: May 17, 2026 at 11:59PM,
end of the drop/add period.
Deadline for uploading Fall 2026 syllabi:
August 30, 2026 at 11:59PM,
end of the drop/add period.
Instructions for uploading a syllabus to Faculty Success:
Video:
Uploading Course Syllabi
Written: Visit the
Help Documentation tab
on the Faculty Success webpage and follow the instructions linked at the third bullet point under "Syllabi Guidance."
Access your
Faculty Success account
and visit the
Faculty Success website
for additional resources.
Important dates:
Academic Calendar
Fall and Spring Final Exam Schedule
Syllabus Resources
Required Syllabus Statement and Policy
University Statement
We are committed to ensuring that all members of the community are welcome, through valuing the various experiences and worldviews represented at Ball State and among those we serve. We promote a culture of respect and civil discourse
.
Disability Statement
If you need course adaptations or accommodations because of a disability, please contact the instructor of record as soon as possible. Ball State's
Disability Services
office coordinates services for students with disabilities; documentation of a disability needs to be on file in that office before any accommodations can be provided. Disability Services can be contacted at 765-285-5293 or
dsd@bsu.edu
.
Attendance Policy
[Faculty are required to establish their own attendance policies for their courses and ensure that they communicate these policies through their course syllabi. See
this study
on the link between attendance and student success. Describe your attendance policy. Be sure to follow the following guidance:
Course attendance policies are up to the individual faculty but must be consistent with
University policies regarding student absences
. Absences will be excused for the following: funeral and bereavement leave, jury duty, late course addition, military absences, observance of religious holidays, pregnancy leave, student-athletes participating in University- or department-approved activities, and university advisories.
Students may encounter other circumstances (e.g. car accidents, job interviews) that result in course absences.
Only faculty members can excuse these absences
and adjustments are at the discretion of the instructor. Where possible, and with sufficient documentation, faculty should support student educational activities.
Consider field-specific best practices as well as student well-being.
In general, students are expected to notify all their instructors once they anticipate