CISC 3171 Introduction to Software Engineering
Syllabus
Schedule
Assignments
Review for Exams
Resources
Syllabus
CISC 3171 Introduction to Software Engineering (Section TR3)
Spring 2023 (01/25/2023 – 05/23/2023)
by
Professor Hui Chen
,
CUNY Brooklyn College
Table of Content
Instructor
Office Hours and Contact
Class Meetings
In-Person Class Meeting
Course Description
Learning Objectives
Topics Covered
Textbook
Academic Regulations and Procedures
Academic Integrity
Student Disability Services
Consideration of Religious Observance
Policy and Software for Online Exam Proctoring
Important Dates
Attendance and Participation
Late Attendance
Assignments and Examinations
Individual Assignments
Group Programming Project
Midterm and Final Examinations
Assignment Submission
Late Submission
Grade Calculation
Letter Grade
Tips for Success
Access to the Internet and Information Technology
Work Hours
Lecture Participation
Group and Peer Learning
Video Conferencing Tools
The Brooklyn College Learning Center
The Brooklyn College Student Support Services
Office Hours
Instructional Technologies
Support and Resources
Instructor
Professor Hui Chen, Ph.D.
Office: Room 1432N Ingersoll Hall
Phone:
718-951-5000 x2055
Office Hours and Contact
Office Hours: 1:30 - 2:30 pm, Tuesday and Thursday
Office Hours Access: in-person (no appointment required during office hours at Room 1432N Ingersoll Hall or otherwise pre-arranged) and online (by arrangement via Zoom or Blackboard Collaborate)
E-mail:
chen@sci.brooklyn.cuny.edu
E-mail Policy: When e-mailing the instructor, include your name and course section in the subject. The instructor will generally reply your message before next class meeting.
Class Meetings
Class Meeting:  03:40 - 04:55 PM Tuesday;  03:40 - 04:55 PM Thursday;
Class Meeting Method: In-Person
Classroom: Room 4141 Ingersoll Hall (4141 IH)
In-Person Class Meeting
The College designates this class as a in-person class in this semester, i.e., we shall  convene class meetings including all exams and tests at the designated times and at the designated classroom.
Course Description
3 hours lecture;
0 hour lab;
3 credits
A broad view of software engineering that introduces a variety of software engineering techniques that can be applied to practical software projects. Topics include: process models, software specification, software design, software development methods and tools, verification and validation, reliability, and human factors.
Prerequisite: Computer and Information Science 3130 [22].
Learning Objectives
By the end of this course, students should be able
to be able to identify, formulate, and solve software engineering problem (including specification, design, implementation, and testing)
to be able to elicit, analyze, and specify software requirements
to be able to use effective software architectures and design patterns
to be able to express design of a software system
to understand software quality and be able to effectively test software
to be able to use appropriate tools in the software development life cycle process
to be able to work effective in a software team
Topics Covered
The following topics are to be covered.
Introduction to Software Engineering (Chapters 1, 2, and 3)
Overview of Software Process Models (Chapter 4)
Tools of the Trade
Agile Development Process (Chapter 5)
Requirement Engineering and Analysis (Chapter 6)
Design (Architecture and Methodology) (Chapter 7)
Design (Characteristics and Metrics) (Chapter 8)
Implementation (Chapter 10)
Testing and Quality Assurance (Chapter 10)
Selected topics
Textbook
Tsui, F. F., Karam, O., & Bernal, B. (2016).
Essentials of software engineering
(4th ed.). Jones & Bartlett Learning.
[
Jones & Bartlett Learning
]
[
Book Store
]
[
Table of Content
]
Academic Regulations and Procedures
All students should carefully and thoroughly read the section entitled
Academic Regulations and Procedures
in the Brooklyn College
Undergraduate or Graduate Bulletin
for a complete listing of academic regulations of the College.
Academic Integrity
The faculty and administration of Brooklyn College support an environment free from cheating and plagiarism. Each student is responsible for being aware of what constitutes cheating and plagiarism and for avoiding both. The complete text of the CUNY Academic Integrity Policy and the Brooklyn College procedure for policy implementation can be found at
http://www.brooklyn.cuny.edu/bc/policies
. If a faculty member suspects a violation of academic integrity and, upon investigation, confirms that violation, or if the student admits the violation, the instructor shall report the violation to the College.
Student Disability Services
In order to receive disability-related academic accommodations students must register with the
Center for Student Disability Services
first. Students who have a documented disability or suspect they may have a disability are invited to set up an appointment with the Director of the Center for Student Disability Services at
(718)951-5538
. If you have already registered with the Center for Student Disability Services, please provide the instructor with the course accommodation form and discuss your specific accommodation with the instructor.
Consideration of Religious Observance
New York State Education Law (Title I, Article 5, Section 224-a) requires that the College
makes available to each student who is absent from school,
because of his [or her] religious beliefs, an equivalent
opportunity to make up any examination, study or work
requirements which he [or she] may have missed because of
such absence on any particular day or days.
If you are unable to attend classes or take examinations, the instructor is happy to accommodate you as permitted by semester schedule and other constraints there may be; however, it is recommended that you make arrangement with the instructor in advance. You may also contact
Division of Student Affairs
, if you have questions about accommodations for religious observ