University of
Denver Home Page
DU Department
of Computer Science Home Page
DU
Game Development Program Home Page
Home
Page for Scott T. Leutenegger
Student examples from spring 2005
COMP 2673, Spring 2005
Course Information and
Syllabus
Course Calendar and
Assignments
Instructor:
Scott T. Leutenegger
(email
leut@cs.du.edu
)
Office: JGH 119, x12821
Office Hours: Mon/Wed 2 - 3 and Thu 9 - 10
or by appointment
Teaching Assistant:
Mark Kim
(email
mkim@cs.du.edu
)
Office: JGH 322, x13297
Office Hours: Tue/Thu 12 - 3
About This Course
This course uses game creation as a mechanism to solidify introductory
programming skills, learn some simple object oriented software engineering,
learn event driven programming, gain insight into the importance of
performance (algorithm/data structure) considerations, compare two
programming languages, and have fun!
Specific topics to be covered include flash, action script
language core features (variables, typing, control structures, arrays,
associative arrays, classes, objects), event driven programming (mouse
and keyboard events), simple 2D graphics programming, UML and OO Design,
performance issues, and game specific
topics (collisions, physics, levels, score keeping).
We will work individually and in teams to create 2D computer games
using Flash and Actionscript.  Art and audio skills are not required.
It is perfectly fine to move boxes and balls around the screen with little
"bleep" sounds comprising your soundscape.  The goal here is NOT the games,
but the CS knowledge learned from the process of creating them.
That said there will be extra credit opportunities, and,
if you get hooked on creating games, do not forget our
new degree program in game development!
Course Meeting Times
The lecture is held in JGH 315 from 3:00 PM to 4:50 PM Monday and
Wednesday
Pre-requisite
COMP 1672.  We assume no knowledge of Flash or Actionscript, but, you
must have completed COMP 1672.
Required Resources
A laptop and Ethernet card/cord
Software: Flash MX 2004 on your laptop.
The normal price of Flash is $450, hence
I suggest you buy it from software express at the academic
discount of $99.  I already provided Mr. Moore (below) with
validation that you are enrolled DU students and hence
the academic pricing is available to you.  To purchase, contact:
Chris Moore, Territory Manager
Software Express, Inc.
Phone: 800.527.7638
Fax: 704.529.1010
http://www.swexpress.com
Book: There are no good books yet covering this subject!
I will be putting notes online throughout the quarter.
Optional Resources
The following are possible reference books.  They truly are not
"needed" for this class, but, if you have the money and like having
reference books, you might find these useful.
We will do very little with UML so this would be my last choice, but,
if you groove on UML you might want them.
Flash:
Sams Teach Yourself Macromedia Flash MX in 24 Hours, by Philip Kerman
Macromedia Flash MX 2004 Hands-On Training (H.O.T), by Rosanna Yeung
Macromedia Flash MX 2004 for Windows and Macintosh : Visual QuickStart Guide, by Katherine Ulrich
Actionscript:
Essential ActionScript 2.0, by Colin Moock
ActionScript for Flash MX: The Definitive Guide, Second Edition, by Colin Moock
Macromedia Flash MX ActionScript for Fun and Games, by Gary Rosenzweig
Macromedia Flash MX Game Design Demystified, by Jobe Makar
C and C++:
Your 1671/1672 textbook
UML:
UML Distilled: A Brief Guide to the Standard Object Modeling Language, Third Edition, by Martin Fowler
UML Weekend Crash Course, by Thomas A. Pender
Pointers and Linked Lists:
One stop information shopping on pointers and linked list
for both C and C++, includeing a claymation video (no kidding!).
Check out:
Stanford CS_Library
Particularly useful pages:
The claymation videos
Ptr Basics
Ptrs and Memory
Linked List Basics
Linked List Problems
Grading
projects
40%
in-class labs (can drop 2)
15%
midterm
20%
final
25%
The 40% for the project will be broken down as (7%, 7%, 8%, 8%, 10%)
for (P1, P2, P3, P4 Design, P4) respectively.
Final Exam
The final is scheduled by the University for Tuesday May 31, 4:00 - 5:45 PM.
There are no exceptions to this time, plan any travel for AFTER the
final.
Late Assignments
You are granted two individual "late days" and two team "late days"
You can trade in a "late day" for a 48 hour extension.
After late days are used you must turn in what you have, finished or not.
The idea is that work builds on previous assignments, hence, I am not
allowing you to fall behind.
Missed Labs
Your lab grade is simply the percentage of labs that you complete mostly
correctly during that lab.  You will be allowed to miss two labs without
penalty, after those two misses are used up you can NOT make up labs.
The two free miss days are intended to accommodate illness, necessary trips,
snowboarding, whatever!
Collaboration and Academic Honesty
When you turn in work in this course, you are implicitly agreeing
that you have followed the rules for collaboration set forth for
that assignment. Copying another person's work on exams or projects
constitutes plagiarism, a violation of the University of Denver Honor Code.
This code forbids plagiarism, cheating, fabrication, and aid of
academic dishonesty. Please note that "aid of academic
dishonesty" includes allowing another person to copy your work. This and all
other violations of the University's academic standards in this class will be
treated with severity. Possible outcomes include (but are not limited to) a
a drop of two letter grades for the final course grade or a failing grade
in the course. In addition, a letter describing the incident will be sent
to the Office of Citizenship and Community Standards, which will address
the situation at their discretion. This office determines additional
consequences for violations to the DU Honor code.
These consequences may include suspension or expulsion from the University.
Stuff you might find useful
Shortcut: F2 = Close output (from trace command) window
Short