Skip to content
Butler University
For Current Students, Faculty & Staff
Apply
Visit
Give
Apply
Visit
Give
INTERNAL RESOURCES
For current Butler students, faculty, and staff
Directory
My.Butler
Access Email
Canvas
Library
Academic Calendar
Event Calendar
Maps & Directions
Parking
BUPD
Resources for:
Current Students
Parents & Families
Faculty & Staff
Alumni & Friends
Site Search
Search for pages, PDFs, and contact information
Browse the Directory
About
Maps & Directions
At a Glance
Experiential Learning
Student-Centered Education
Graduate Outcomes
Community & Engagement
Office of the President
Strategic Direction
Mascot Blue IV
Give to Butler
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Butler Gateway Project
Sustainability at Butler
Admission & Aid
First-Year
Transfer
International
Graduate & Professional
Non-Degree
Admitted Students
Financial Aid & Scholarships
Net Price Calculator
Tuition & Costs
Military and Veterans
Find Your Admission Counselor
Virtual Tour
Transferring Credits
Academics
Undergraduate Majors & Minors
Graduate & Professional
Colleges
Three-Year Programs
Study Abroad
Service-Learning
Internships & Careers
Academic Services
Registration & Records
Library
Academic Calendar
Founder’s College
Butler Overseas
Degree Completion
Online Programs
Student Life
Housing & Dining
Living in Indy
Student Well-Being
Recreation
Student Involvement
First-Year Experience
Greek Life
Campus Safety
Volunteering
Athletics
Arts & Events
Graduate and Professional
Esports
News & Stories
Make a Gift
Resources for:
Current Students
Parents & Families
Faculty & Staff
Alumni & Friends
Request Info
Schedule a Visit
Apply to Butler
Home
College of Liberal Arts & Sciences
Mathematical Sciences
Course Descriptions & Frequency of Offerings
Mathematical Sciences Menu
Mathematics Program
Actuarial Science Program
Statistics Program
Data Science Program
Additional Minors
Mathematical Sciences Internships
Mathematical Sciences Faculty & Staff
Student Research Opportunities
Professional Associations
Course Descriptions & Frequency of Offerings
Mathematical Sciences Tutoring Lab
Actuarial Science Board of Visitors
Student Awards
SLIIT 2+2 Program
More Links
Course Descriptions & Frequency of Offerings
Below is a listing of classes that may be offered by the Mathematical  Sciences Department during your studies at Butler. For the most current information, please review our
Course Catalog
.
Core
AR210-MA Statistically Speaking:
Who needs statistics in the 21st century? Anyone looking critically at numerical information who does not want to be misled by incorrect or inappropriate calculations or anyone dealing with issues in their environment, state/nation or career would benefit from studying the methodology of statistics. These problems include finding ways to improve our environment and living standards or studies conducted in an effort to fight diseases. This course is an introduction to applied statistics in the natural, social and managerial sciences through the use of current environmental and global issues. Topics include sampling, data analysis, experimental design and the use of computer-based statistical software. (U)(3). Fall and spring.
AR211-MA Codes & Secret Messages:
How can sensitive information such as credit card numbers or military strategy be exchanged between two people without being intercepted by a third party? Are there ways to detect and correct errors resulting from a mistyped identification number or a scratched CD? Can information be exchanged securely among multiple individuals without anyone revealing his or her own decryption scheme? In this course, students will investigate various strategies for storing and transmitting information accurately, efficiently and securely. Students will design several types of ciphers for sending secret messages, construct various error detecting and error-correcting codes, and implement secure public-key cryptosystems for exchanging messages with classmates. As these issues are explored, students will discover the need for mathematical notions such as modular arithmetic, permutations and combinations, probability and statistics, vectors and matrices, and formal logic. Students will also become aware of the central role played by cryptology and coding throughout history and modern society. (U)(3). Fall and spring.
AR212-MA Win, Lose or Draw:
Why do we play games? Whatever the reason, games are a big piece of life. The world has played games for a long, long time — every time period, every culture. We will study games and gambling in our culture as well as those in other cultures. To better understand games, the students will study probability theory and its application to gaming. Applications include casino games, lotteries, racing, wagering systems, as well as other games. Some analytical tools that will arise during the course are counting methods, expected value, trees, gambler’s ruin and distributions. (U)(3). Fall and spring.
MA 100
MA101 Algebra:
Provides students with the necessary background to continue in mathematics. Topics include the number system, equations, inequalities, graphs, polynomials, algebraic functions, and exponents. Students who have successfully completed any other mathematics course will not be given credit for MA101. Does not satisfy Core Curriculum requirement. Must not be taken pass/fail. (U)(3) Fall and spring.
MA102 Precalculus:
Provides students with the necessary mathematical background to successfully complete a calculus course or a course that has calculus as a major topic. Topics include solving equations and inequalities, exponents, factoring, complex numbers, and functions—linear, quadratic, polynomial, rational, exponential, logarithmic, and trigonometric. Students who have successfully completed any other mathematics course (MA106 or above) will not be given credit for MA102. Does not satisfy Core Curriculum requirement. Must not be taken pass/fail. Prerequisite: Appropriate score on the Butler math placement test. (U)(4)