Fall 2022: CS/ECE 6810  Computer Architecture
General Information:
Venue: WEB L105.
Time: Monday, Wednesday 1:25-2:45pm.
Instructor: Rajeev Balasubramonian, email: rajeev@cs, MEB 3414, office hours: Mondays 12:15 - 1:15 pm, or catch me right after each lecture, or email me to set up an appointment or a Zoom meeting.
Pre-Requisite: CS 3810 or equivalent.
TAs: Anurag Gupta (anurag.gupta@utah.edu, office hrs Tues 1-3pm), Shreyas Singh (shreyas.singh@utah.edu, office hrs Wed 3-5pm), Yuyou Fan (yuyou.fan@utah.edu, office hrs Thu 3-5pm).  For office hours, use the
TA Queue
to get in line.  All office hours will be in the CADE Lab, and you can also connect via the zoom link on the TA queue.
Textbook (optional): Computer Architecture A Quantitative Approach - 5th or 6th Edition, John Hennessy and David Patterson
Class announcements and discussion forums will be hosted on Canvas.
Prerequisites:
You are expected to know introductory computer architecture concepts,
such as those covered in CS 3810 (textbook for 3810: Computer Organization
and Design, Patterson and Hennessy, 5th edition). You will be well-served
to re-visit some of the basic concepts in the 3810 textbook before the
first day of class.
Covid Guidelines:
Please see the
University's guidelines for Covid precautions.
In particular, I'd like to emphasize the following: (i) You are all encouraged to get vaccinated, wear masks, and social distance.  Such practices will keep you and your fellow students safe, and minimize Covid-related disruptions. (ii) Please stay home if you're unwell (you can watch compressed lecture videos to catch up).  Please get tested and inform me if you receive a positive Covid test.  (iii) Please don't hesitate to reach out to me in case of any problems or if you need any accommodations.
School of Computing Guidelines
Class rosters are provided to the instructor with the student's legal name as well as "Preferred first name" (if previously entered by you in the Student Profile section of your CIS account).  While CIS refers to this as merely a preference, I will honor you by referring to you with the name and pronoun that feels best for you in class, on papers, exams, etc.  Please advise me of any name or pronoun changes (and please update CIS) so I can help create a learning environment in which you, your name, and your pronoun will be respected.
College Guidelines
SafeU Information
The University of Utah values the safety of all campus community members. To report suspicious activity or to request a courtesy escort, call campus police at 801-585-COPS (801-585-2677). You will receive important emergency alerts and safety messages regarding campus safety via text message. For more information regarding safety and to view available training resources, including helpful videos, visit
SAFEU
.
Special Needs:
The University of Utah seeks to provide equal access to its programs,
services and activities for people with disabilities.  If you will
need accommodations in the class, reasonable prior notice needs to be
given to the Center for Disability Services, 162 Olpin Union Building,
581-5020 (V/TDD).  CDS will work with you and the instructor to make
arrangements for accommodations.
All written information in this course can be made available in
alternative format with prior notification to the Center for
Disability Services.
Grading:
The following is a tentative guideline and may undergo changes.
Two exams will count for 60% of the final grade; one will be in October
and the other during Finals week.
The remaining 40% will be based on homework assignments.
We have zero tolerance for cheating -- if your class rank in the
assignments is significantly different from your class rank in
the exams, only your rank in the exams will count towards your
grade. We know you're juggling multiple activities and the
assignment deadline may not always be favorable.  I also anticipate
students may be affected by illnesses in their immediate family. You are
therefore allowed to skip two of the assignments -- use
these freebies prudently. Late submissions will not be graded.
Cheating policy:
Working with others on assignments is a good way to learn the material and is
encouraged.  However, there are limits to the degree of cooperation that is
permitted.  Students may discuss among themselves the meaning of homework
problems and possible approaches to solving them.  Any written portion of an
assignment, however, is to be done strictly on an individual basis.
Note the School of Computing's
Academic Misconduct Policy.
BOTTOM LINE: You may not copy from another student or from any other source,
and you may not allow another student to copy your work!!  Any violation of
the above is considered to be cheating and will result in a reduced or a
failing grade in the class.
TAs will be on the lookout for solution sets that appear very similar.
Also, if your class rank in the
assignments is significantly different from your class rank in
the exams, only your rank in the exams will count towards your
grade.
Video Resources
Screencast videos based on every lecture are already posted on YouTube
(links below).  I will not be recording in-class lectures.  If you happen to
miss the in-class lecture, I recommend watching the YouTube videos to catch
up.  Ideally, you'll attend the in-class lecture and watch the YouTube videos to
reinforce concepts (either when solving homeworks or preparing for the exams).
YouTube Video Playlist
Nicer playlist created by a 6810 student
Homework Assignments:
Assignments will be posted here (almost) weekly.
The deadline for assignments
will typically be the start of class on Monday or Wednesday.  In all cases,
you will turn in responses as a pdf file on Canvas.
All assignments will have an automatic 1.5 day penalty-free extension; beyond
that, you will not be able to upload your submissions.
There will be
about 9 assignments, of which you are allowed to skip two (in other words,
we will drop the two lowest scores among your