CISC 1115 Introduction to Programming Using Java
Syllabus
Schedule
Assignments
Review for Exams
Resources
Syllabus
CISC 1115 Introduction to Programming Using Java (Section TY2)
Spring 2024 (01/25/2024 – 05/22/2024)
by
Professor Hui Chen
,
CUNY Brooklyn College
Table of Content
Instructor
Office Hours and Contact
Class Meetings
In-Person Class Meeting
Course Description
Learning Objectives
Textbook
Academic Regulations and Procedures
Academic Integrity
Student Disability Services
Consideration of Religious Observance
Policy and Software for Online Exam Proctoring
Important Dates
Attendance and Participation
Late Attendance
Assignments and Examinations
CodeLab Assignments
Programming Assignments
Midterm and Final Examinations
Assignment Submission
Late Submission and Resubmission
Grade Calculation
Letter Grade
Tips for Success
Access to the Internet and Information Technology
Work Hours
Lecture Participation
Group and Peer Learning
Video Conferencing Tools
The Brooklyn College Learning Center
The Brooklyn College Student Support Services
Office Hours
Instructional Technologies
Support and Resources
Instructor
Professor Hui Chen, Ph.D.
Office: Room 1432N Ingersoll Hall (No appointments are necessary during office hours.)
Office Hours and Contact
Office Hours: 6:00 - 7:00, Monday ;6:00 - 7:00, Wednesday
Office Hours Access: in-person (one student at a time at Room 1432N Ingersoll Hall) and online (by arrangement via Zoom or Blackboard Collaborate)
E-mail:
chen@sci.brooklyn.cuny.edu
E-mail Policy: When e-mailing the instructor, include your name and course section in the subject. The instructor will generally reply your message before next class meeting.
Class Meetings
Class Meeting:  02:40 - 04:45 PM Tuesday;  02:40 - 04:45 PM Thursday;
Class Meeting Method: In-Person
Classroom: 214 IA
In-Person Class Meeting
The College designates this class as a in-person class in this semester, i.e., we shall  convene class meetings including all exams and tests at the designated times and at the designated classroom.
Course Description
3 hours lecture;
2 hours lab;
4 credits
Algorithms, computers and programs. Writing, debugging, and testing programs. Loops and conditional control structures. Method definition and parameter passing. Arrays, ArrayLists, and Strings. Sorting, searching and other basic algorithms. Input and output. Programming applications selected from various disciplines. History and basic concepts of computer science. (Not open to students who have completed Computer and Information Science 1110 [1.5]. Completion of this course prohibits a student from receiving credit for CISC 1110.)
Prerequisite: N/A
Learning Objectives
By the end of this course, students should be able
(Objective 1) Understand the concept of a program (i.e., a computer following a series of instructions)
(Objective 2) Declare a variable with an appropriate data type (either character or numeric), initialize the variable’s value, and change the value when appropriate
(Objective 3) Use control structures, including a loop to repeat the execution of a series of statements and a conditional statement to select one from a series of alternatives
(Objective 4) Write a function to perform a subtask and use the function as part of a larger program
(Objective 5) Use an array to store multiple pieces of homogeneous data, and to use a simple class to store multiple pieces of heterogeneous data
(Objective 6) Trace the execution of a program and predict the results of the execution
(Objective 7) Write an algorithm for a simple task
(Objective 8) Master a simple programming environment (Windows or Unix command lines)
Textbook
Liang, Y. D. (2017).
Introduction to Java Programming and Data Structures, Comprehensive Version
(11th ed.). Pearson.
[
Pearson
]
[
Book Store
]
[
Table of Content
]
Academic Regulations and Procedures
All students should carefully and thoroughly read the section entitled
Academic Regulations and Procedures
in the Brooklyn College
Undergraduate or Graduate Bulletin
for a complete listing of academic regulations of the College.
Academic Integrity
The faculty and administration of Brooklyn College support an environment free from cheating and plagiarism. Each student is responsible for being aware of what constitutes cheating and plagiarism and for avoiding both. The complete text of the CUNY Academic Integrity Policy and the Brooklyn College procedure for policy implementation can be found at
www.brooklyn.edu/policies.
If a faculty member suspects a violation of academic integrity and, upon investigation, confirms that violation, or if the student admits the violation, the faculty member MUST report the violation. Students should be aware that faculty may use plagiarism detection software.
Student Disability Services
The Center for Student Disability Services (CSDS) is committed to ensuring students with disabilities enjoy an equal opportunity to participate at Brooklyn College. In order to receive disability-related academic accommodations, students must first be registered with CSDS. Students who have a documented disability or suspect they may have a disability are invited to schedule an interview by calling (718) 951-5538 or emailing Josephine.Patterson@brooklyn.cuny.edu If you have already registered with CSDS, email Josephine.Patterson@brooklyn.cuny.edu or testingcsds@brooklyn.cuny.edu to ensure accommodation emails are sent to your professor.
Consideration of Religious Observance
New York State Education Law (Title I, Article 5, Section 224-a) requires that the College
makes available to each student who is absent from school,
because of his [or her] religious beliefs, an equivalent
opportunity to make up any examination, study or work
requirements which he [or she] may have missed because of
such absence on any particular day or days.
If you are unable to attend classes or take examinations, the instructor is happy to accommodate you as permitted by semester schedule and other constraints there may be;