Math 259
Winter 2009
Calculus in 3D
Instructor:
Dale Winter
6124
Wean Hall
(412) 268-8419
amanita@andrew.cmu.edu
Many of the files on this site are
posted in PDF format. If you have any trouble reading them, try
downloading the latest version of the free
Adobe
Acrobat Reader
software.
Links to Math 259 Information
Math 259 Announcements
Office Hours during the exam period
Dale Winter will be available in 6124 Wean during the times listed below.  Dale Winter will not be able to make appointments for one-on-one consultations with students during the exam period.  Remember to check with your TA's to see if they are holding office hours during the exam period.
Tuesday, May 5:
10am to noon and 1pm to 5pm.
Wednesday, May 6:
1pm to 5pm.
Thursday, May 7:
10am to noon and 1pm to 5pm.
Monday, May 11:
9am to noon; 1pm to 2:30pm and 5:30pm to 7:00pm.
Final Exam and Solutions Available
You can obtain a copy of the final exam and read the solutions by clicking
here
.
Letter Grade Equivalents
If you wish to convert your weighted average of the scores that you have accumulated during the semester to a letter grade, then the following guidelines are suggested.
A
87-100
B
77-86
C
67-76
D
56-66
R
0-55
Math 259 Handout 6
The handout distributed and its solutions are now available.  You can obtain a copy by clicking
here
.
Math 259 Final Exam
The Math 259 final exam will be held on May 8:
Day:
Friday, May 8
Time:
5:30pm-8:30pm
Place:
McConomy Auditorium, University Center
Final Exam Conflicts
Please check your final exam schedule (click
here
for the final exam schedule).  The final exam for Math 259 will be held:
Day:
Friday, May 8
Time:
5:30pm-8:30pm
Place:
To be announced
If you discover a conflict with another exam, double-check your exam schedule.  If you still find a conflict with another exam, let Dr. Winter know immediately.  The later you leave this, the fewer good options remain for resolving the conflict.
Studying for Unit Tests and the Final Exam
When contemplating what kinds of activities you will do to prepare for this test, please bear in mind the candid commentary left on the popular web site
Rate my Professors
by a CMU student regarding Dale Winter's exams:
Grading can be pretty harsh. Don't expect an A or even a B unless you put in a very serious effort. Don't be fooled by the exam retakes, they are often harder/different than the original exams.
Last semester, students who earned A's spent an average of 8 hours preparing for each unit test.  If you are interested in earning an A grade on this exam, this is the kind of effort you should think in terms of.
Some effective ways to spend your time preparing for the do-over test include:
Go over your test when you get it back.  Identify the problems that you could and couldn't do, and then get help with the ones you couldn't do.
Work through the packets of review problems that are available on this web site (e.g. click
here
.)
Look at the material that was covered in depth on the test you just had and make sure you know that thoroughly--it is important and some of it will be tested again.
Look at the material that wasn't covered on the test you just had and make sure you know this very well--there is a good chance that some of it will appear on the new test.
Practice the basic calculations (e.g. the cross product, graphing equations in polar coordinates) so you can do them reliably, accurately and quickly.  This will save you time on the test that you can devote to tackling less familiar problems.
Peer Tutoring and Academic Assistance
Peer tutoring (and other forms of assistance) is
available from
Academic
Development
.
Afternoon tutoring and help is available from 4pm to 6pm on Monday and Wednesday in B6A Cyert Hall.
Evening tutoring and help is available from 8:30pm to 11:00pm Sunday through Thursday in the Mudge Library and Donner Reading room.
On Monday night, tutors will be present in the Mudge Library and Donner Reading room who are well versed in multivariable calculus and there to help 21-259 students, so please take advantage of this generous service!
Important Dates for the Winter Semester
The add deadline is:
Friday,
January 23
.
The drop deadline (to avoid a W) is:
Monday,
March 30
.
The unit exams and cumulative final exam for Math 259 will
be held at the following days and times:
Unit Test 1:
Friday,
February 13
, during class time.
Unit Test 2:
Friday,
March 20
, during class time.
Unit Test 3:
Friday,
April 24
, during class time.
Final Exam:
Friday,
May 8
, 5:30pm-8:30pm.
Image courtesy of
Public
Domain Photos
.
The photograph of the Wright Glider is courtesy of
the Library of Congress. Photo credits for other images are due to:
Sarah Williams, Mark Wieczorak, Edson Pires, Paul Joseph, Dain
Hubley, Michael Rogers and Griszka Niewiadomski.