Toggle Navigation
Andrew Forney
About
Classes
Contact
Publications
Classes
CMSI 1900
Syllabus
CMSI 1900 - Exploring Computer Science
Professor Andrew Forney • Andrew.Forney[at]lmu.edu
This course will provide an overview of Computer Science as a discipline of study, as a department at LMU, and of your peers
in the major with whom you will spend your next few years! Apart from this knowledge and exposure, we want you to feel a sense
of belonging in this incredible community at LMU as well as a connection to past computer scientists who have paved the way to
where we are today.
Learning Outcomes
By the course's end, students will have gained:
An overview of modern CMSI:
including familiarity with subfields like networking, security, artificial
intelligence, game design, web design, etc. and possible career paths in each.
Relationships with other students in LMU CMSI:
not just getting to know one another, but also having
study and work groups in mind for your courses and side projects.
General tips for success in CMSI:
everything from clarity of the CMSI curriculum to how to take notes /
study for CMSI courses, etc.
Familiarity with LMU CMSI Faculty:
including faculty research (and how to get involved), sample lectures,
and pearls of wisdom to take with you through your career at LMU.
A sense of belonging:
as well as helpful tips for avoiding common pitfalls like impostor syndrome and
procrastination -- remember, you belong here!
About your Moderator
Far be it from me to make a syllabus about myself, but just by way of introductions...
Click here to see some bullets about your instructor!
Quick facts:
Had to repeat Kindergarten, but look where I am now?
3rd-generation Lion, graduated LMU 2012
Went to UCLA for MS and PhD
Main area of expertise is in AI: a subfield called causal inference
In my free time, enjoy
gym and gaming
getting attacked by my toddler (pictured: right)
Am currently trying to learn Spanish, so if you speak it, feel free to engage me in a (probably one-sided) conversation
Lecture Attendance
Attendance and participation are mandatory!
In fact, they're pretty much your only responsibility
in this class!
Attendance Requirements
You are allowed
two (2) absences
(excused or otherwise) before losing credit for this course and
needing to repeat it.
You do NOT need to tell me in advance if you will be missing a class, for any reason -- you get 2 absences for whatever!
Remote attendance is not an option, not only due to school policy, but also because you'd miss out on bonding opportunities
with your classmates!
Lectures are participatory: come prepared to ask and answer questions to make the most out of your education!
Attendance Check-in System
To make things easy on all of us, we will use an in-person attendance check-in system developed by some of our own CMSI students! Thanks to Aidan Srouji
and Masao Kitamura for their efforts.
Before Week 2:
Follow the link to our registration page and sign in with your Google account:
LMU Attendance Tracker
Enter your name, university student ID (can be found on PROWL if you don't know it), and library number into the form. Your library number can be
found on the back of your OneCard and should be 14-digits.
After submitting, you're all set! You can sign in again at any time to view your attendance records, though you don't *need* to return to this site
again if you don't want to.
Starting Week 2:
When you arrive to class, come to the front (where the instructor is) and scan your OneCard in front of the card reader. A successful scan will
make it loudly beep, meaning you're officially checked-in for the day.
Note: you *must* have your OneCard on you in order to receive attendance credit!
The scanner will be deactivated a few minutes past the start of class, after which, you will not be able to check in and will be considered absent.
Lecture Types and Expectations
There will be two types of classes throughout the semester that will have different requirements from you:
Participatory:
classes that involve some activity and do not require note taking (though you are welcome to if convenient).
Lecture:
classes that involve some speaker presenting on a topic for which the following is required:
[Note-taking] You must generate at least 1 page (8.5" x 11" notebook or notebook paper) of hand-written notes on the lecture's topic.
At the end of class, a spreadsheet of a random selection of students in class will be shown; if your name is on it, you must present your notes to the instructor.
If you are not present when called for your notes, or show notes that do not meet the 1-page minimum, a half-day absence will be counted for you.
You may be called multiple times during the semester, so get that vital practice taking notes, having some record of what you learned in the class, and paying attention!
[Digital Devices Away] You must not have your laptop or phone out during these lectures -- give the speaker your full attention.
[Accommodations Excepted] If you have DSS accommodations that run in exception to the above, please let me know / have DSS forward your accommodations ASAP.
Workload Expectations
Although this is a 0-unit course, it is
required
as part of your degree!
That said, you should not have many responsibilities outside of class attendance and participation.
Finding Help for the Course
LMU CMSI has a ton of resources and people who are thrilled to help you succeed! See the following opportunities and avenues for getting help in this class' material.
Slack Messaging
Alongside email exchanges, you may reach me via the Slack messaging service (Slack is a chat client that can be
downloaded here
) in the LMUCS channel (lmucs.slack.com) and username
forns
.
Feel free to reach out any time -- in the worst case, I have to step away from my desk and will answer your message when I return!
Please try to send your note / question in a single message rather than splitting it into like 9 different messages that make my computer sound like it's makin